R 
 
INFORMATION BULLETIN 
CTET-SEPTEMBER, 2026 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of Online Application: 11.05.2026 to 10.06.2026 
Last date for submission of online Application: (Before 10.06.2026 11:59PM) 
Last date for submission of fee: 10.06.2026 (Before11:59PM) 
Date of Examination: 06TH SEPTEMBER, 2026 (SUNDAY)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONDUCTED BY 
CENTRAL BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, DELHI 
CENTRAL TEACHER ELIGIBILITY TEST UNIT 
CBSE INTEGRATED OFFICE COMPLEX, SECTOR-23, PHASE-1, DWARKA, NEW DELHI-110077 
 
 
Date of Examination 
 
06th September, 2026 
CENTRAL TEACHER ELIGIBILITY TEST 
Duration of Online Application: 11.05.2026 to 10.06.2026 
Last date for submission of online Application: 10.06.2026 (Before 11:59PM)  
Last date for submission of fee: 10.06.2026 (Before11:59PM) 
Date of Examination: 06th September, 2026 (Sunday) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
***In case number of candidates increases, the exam may also be conducted 
on 05th September, 2026 (Saturday). 
 
 
 
 
CTET-SEPTEMBER, 2026 
INFORMATION BULLETIN 
 
 
CONDUCTED BY 
CENTRAL BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, DELHI 
CENTRAL TEACHER ELIGIBILITY TEST UNIT 
CBSE INTEGRATED OFFICE COMPLEX, SECTOR-23, PHASE-1, DWARKA, NEW DELHI-110077 
 
 
 
Date of Exam Paper Code Shift Time 
 
06.09.2026*** 
 
Paper-II Morning 
 
09:30 AM to 12:00 NOON 
Paper-I Evening 
 
02:30 PM to 05:00 PM 

                                                               CTET–SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                    
 
IMPORTANT NOTES: 
Candidates can apply for CTET –SEPTEMBER, 2026 “ONLINE” through CTET website 
https://ctet.nic.in or CBSE website https://www.cbse.gov.in w.e.f. 11.05.2026 to 10.06.2026 (Before 
11:59 PM) 
1. The candidate applying for CTET is required:- 
i) To go through the Information Bulletin carefully with the entire requirement therein. 
ii) To satisfy eligibility to appear in the examination. 
iii) To submit online application by giving full particulars by accessing the CTET official website 
https://ctet.nic.in or the CBSE official website https://www.cbse.gov.in. 
iv) To write complete mailing address with Postal PIN Code at the time of applying. 
v) Before submission of application form, decide the mode of payment of fee. 
vi) To keep the Confirmation Page along. 
vii) If a candidate submits online more than one application, his/her candidature shall be 
liable to be cancelled and the candidate may also be debarred for future examination(s). 
No communication will be sent in this regard. 
 
Method of Submission of Online Application Form:  
STEP 1: Log on to CTET official web site https://ctet.nic.in or CBSE website 
https://www.cbse.gov.in  
 
STEP 2: Go to the link “Apply Online” and open the same. 
STEP 3: Fill in the Online Application Form and note down Registration No./Application No. 
STEP 4: Upload latest Scanned Photograph and Signature 
 STEP 5: Pay Examination Fee by debit/credit card and net banking.  
 STEP 6: Print Confirmation page for record and future reference. 
2. Registration Procedure: 
(a) Authentication Form : Fill details like State, Identification type (select any Identity as 
applicable), Candidate’s Name, Date of Birth and Gender. 
(b) Fill Online Application Form : Fill complete online Application Form and choose password. 
After submission, a Registration Number/Application Number gets generated. Note down the 
Registration No./Application No. For subsequent login, system generated Registration No. 
/Application No. and chosen Password will be used. 
 Password Policy will be as follows: 
1. Password must be 8 to13 characters long. 
2. Password must have at least one Upper case, one lower case alphabet and one numeric 
value and at least one special characters!@#$%^&*- 
3. Candidate can change the passwords after login, if desired. New Password cannot be 
identical to any of the previous three passwords. 
 Candidate is advised not to disclose or share the password with anybody. Neither CTET nor 
NIC will be responsible for violation or misuse of the password of a candidate. 
 Candidate should log out at the end of their  session so that the contents of the application 
cannot be tampered by unauthorized persons. 
(c) Online Uploading of Scanned Images: 
 Uploading of scanned Photo and Signature are mandatory. 
 Upload scanned photograph and signature in JPG/JPEG format. 
 Size of scanned photograph should be between 10 to 100 KB 
 Image Dimension of photograph should be 3.5 cm (width) x 4.5 cm (height). 
 Size of scanned signature should be between 3 KB to 30 KB. 
 Image Dimension of signature should be 3.5 cm (length) x 1.5 cm (height). 
The candidates are advised to keep the scanned images of latest photograph and signature of 
the candidates ready in JPEG/JPG format and as per the size and dimension specified, before 
applying online. 
The scanned image of latest photograph is required to upload to avoid the inconvenience at 
centre, as this photograph will be matched with the actual candidate appearing in the 
examination. 
 
 
 
                                                               CTET–SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                    
 
 
 
(d) Pay Examination Fee: 
CATEGORY Only Paper- I or II Both Paper-I & II 
General/OBC(NCL) Rs.1000/- Rs.1200/- 
SC/ST/Diff. Abled Person Rs.500/- Rs.600/- 
GST as applicable will be charged extra by the Bank 
Mode of Payment: By Online-mode (Payment by Debit Card/Credit Card/Net Banking). 
 
(e) Downloading of Confirmation Page: 
Candidates are required to take printout of Confirmation Page for record and keep it for their 
reference. The Confirmation Page is not required to be sent to CTET Unit. 
3. The candidate should satisfy his/her eligibility before applying and  shall be personally 
responsible in case he/she is not eligible to apply as per the given eligibility criteria. 
4. Candidate should enter his/her particulars, i.e., Name, Father’s Name, Mother’s Name and Date 
of Birth as per Class X th Certificate. Please note  that no request for any change in particular 
will be accepted under any circumstances after the specified date for online correction is 
over. 
5. “ONLINE”APPLICATION SUBMISSION - 
Candidates can apply “ONLINE‟ through CTET website https://ctet.nic.in or CBSE website  
https://www.cbse.gov.in. The candidate should supply all details while filling the Online Form and 
upload their scanned images of latest photograph & signature. After successful submission of data 
and requisite fee, candidates are required to take printout of Confirmation Page. 
6. Correction/ Updation in Details: 
The candidate’s particulars cannot be changed/ edited once the examination fee has been submitted. 
However the facility of corrections in the particulars (exc ept city of examination) may be made 
available on the portal during the specified period which will be notified on the website of CTET. 
The Board will not be responsible for any consequences arising out of non -acceptance of any 
correction/addition/deletion in any particular once filled in the Application Form whatsoever 
the reasons may be. 
 
The candidates shall be permitted to make online correction in their following particulars i.e. name, 
father and mother name, date of birth, category, differently abled category, Paper opted (i.e. Paper I 
or Paper II ), Subject for Paper II, language I and/ or II opted, Address of correspondence and the 
name of the Institution/College/University from where he/she has obtained his/her B. Ed. Degree/  
Diploma in Elementary Education etc. 
This facility of correction will be provided only once. Fee once remitted s hall not be refunded or 
adjusted for future test under any circumstances. 
No change will be accepted through offline mode i.e. through fax/application or by email etc. 
No correspondence in this regard will be entertained. Please note that no request for an y 
change in particular will be accepted under any circumstances after the specified date for 
online correction is over. 
  
                                                               CTET–SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                    
 
 
7. The dates for downloading admit card will be available on CTET website. For latest updates, 
please visit CTET official website https://ctet.nic.in regularly. 
8. The address for correspondence:  
JOINT SECRETARY, 
CENTRAL TEACHER ELIGIBILITY TEST UNIT,  
CENTRAL BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, 
CBSE INTEGRATED OFFICE COMPLEX, SECTOR-23,  
PHASE-1, DWARKA, NEW DELHI-110077 
Contact No: 011-24050477 
Email: ctet.cbse@nic.in 
 
The candidate must retain Confirmation Page for record and future reference. 
Qualifying the CTET would not confer a right on any person for Recruitment/Employment as it 
is only one of the eligibility criteria for appointment. 
For latest updates, please visit CTET official Website : https://ctet.nic.in For any query, mail 
to Email: ctet.cbse@nic.in mentioning your Registration/ Application No. in the mail 
The candidate should mention their own mobile number and E -Mail ID while submitting their 
online application as the CTET alerts/information will be sent to the candidates on their 
registered mobile number and E-Mail ID. 
                                                               CTET–SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                    
 
 
CONTENTS 
 
Sl. No. Descriptions 
1. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE 
2. SHORT TITLE 
3. DEFINITIONS 
4. SCHEDULE OF EXAMINATION 
5. MODE OF SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION 
6. ELIGIBILITY 
7. STRUCTURE AND CONTENT OF CTET 
8. LANGUAGE OF THE QUESTION PAPER 
9. QUALIFYING MARKS AND AWARD OF CTET CERTIFICATE 
10. APPLICABILITY 
11. VALIDITY PERIOD OF CTET CERTIFICATE 
12. EXAMINATION CENTRES 
13. E-ADMIT CARD 
14. PROCEDURE FOR CONDUCT OF EXAMINATION 
15. EXAMINATION FEE FOR CENTRALTEACHER ELEGIBILITY TEST 
16. VERIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY 
17. FURNISHING OF FALSE,WRONG OR INACCURATE INFORMATION 
18. RE-CHECKING/RE-EVALUATION 
19. AMANUENSIS 
20. CERTIFICATE AND MARK STATEMENT 
21. WEEDING OUT RULES 
22.          DISPLAY OF SCANNED COPY OF OMR ANSWER SHEET/ANSWER KEY 
23. LEGAL JURISDICTION 
24. APPENDIX I–VII 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page1 
 
 
1. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE 
In accordance with the provisions of sub -section (1) of Section 23 of the RTE Act, the National 
Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) vide Notification dated 23
rd 
August, 2010 subsequently 
amended from time to time has laid down the minimum qualifications for a person to be eligible for 
appointment as a teacher for class I to VIII. It had been inter alia provided that one of the essential 
qualifications for a person to be eligible for appointment as a teacher in any of the schools referred to  
in Clause (n) of section 2 of the RTE Act is that he/she should pass the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) 
which will be conducted by the appropriate Government in accordance with the Guidelines framed by 
the NCTE. 
The rationale for including the TET as a mi nimum qualification for a person to be eligible for 
appointment as a teacher is as under: 
i. It would bring national standards and benchmark of teacher quality in the recruitment process; 
ii. It would induce teacher education institutions and students from these institutions to further 
improve their performance standards; 
iii. It would send a positive signal to all stakeholders that the Government lays special emphasis on 
teacher quality 
The Ministry of Education, Govt. of India has entrusted the responsibility of cond ucting the 
Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) to the Central Board of Secondary Education, Delhi. 
2. SHORT TITLE 
These rules will be called as “Central Teacher Eligibility Test Rules, 2011” (CTET). 
3. DEFINITIONS 
i. “Government” means “Government of India”. 
ii. “Ministry” means “Ministry of Education, New Delhi”. 
iii. “Board” means “Central Board of Secondary Education, Delhi”. 
iv. “School” for this purpose means any school where CTET is applicable as per RTE ACT 2009. 
v. “CTET” means “Central Teacher Eligibility Test”. 
vi. “Qualifying Examination” means “Examination on the result of which the candidate becomes 
eligible to apply for Central Teacher Eligibility Test. 
vii. “Rules” means “The rules specified by the Central Board of Secondary Education for the conduct 
of CTET under the directive of Ministry of Education, Govt. of India, New Delhi”. 
viii. “Schedule Castes” means “Scheduled Castes as specified and laid down by the Government of 
India”. 
ix. “Scheduled Tribes” means “Scheduled Tribes as specified and laid down by the Government of 
India”. 
x. “Other Backward Classes (OBCs)” means “Other Backward Classes as specified and laid down 
by the Government of India or by the respective States/UTs, where CTET is applicable/adopted, 
as the case may be”. 
xi. “Differently abled persons” means “Differently abled persons as specified and laid down by the 
Government of India in RPWD Act 2016 or the respective States/UTs, where CTET is 
applicable/adopted, as the case may be”. 
xii. “Examining Body” means “Central Board of Secondary Education Delhi for conducting t he 
Central Teacher Eligibility Test on behalf of the Central Government”. 
 
4. SCHEDULE AND MODE OF EXAMINATION 
THE SCHEDULE OF CTET-SEPTEMBER, 2026 IS GIVEN BELOW: 
DATE OF 
EXAMINATION 
Paper Code SHIFT TIMING DURATION 
 
06.09.2026 
Paper-II Morning 
 
09:30 AM to 12:00 NOON 2:30 HOURS 
Paper-I Evening 
 
02:30 PM to 05:00 PM 2:30 HOURS 
 
In case number of candidates increases, the exam may also be conducted on 05 th September, 
2026 (Saturday). 
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page2 
 
 
 
5. MODE OF SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION 
A candidate can apply for the Central Teacher Eligibility Test Online by logging on CTET official 
website https://ctet.nic.in or CBSE website https://www.cbse.gov.in only. 
 
Before applying online please ensure to have following documents/files: 
 Scanned image of latest photograph in JPG/JPEG format only, for uploading. 
 Scanned image of signature in JPG/JPEG format only, for uploading. 
Decide the mode of payment of fee: 
 Through Debit/Credit Card/Net Banking using online gateway payment facility, 
a) If decided to pay fee through Debit/Credit Card, check the validity of the Card and keep it 
ready with you while logging on to website for submitting application form. 
b) Once the payment has been confirmed by the Bank/CTET, a confirmation page will be 
generated. 
c) In case, the fee payment status is not “OK‟ the candidates are advised as 
following:- 
 If the fee is paid through credit/debit card and status is not OK, it means the 
transaction is cancelled and the amount will be refunded to concerned credit/debit card 
within a week. Such candidates have to pay the fee once again. 
 If the fee is paid through net banking and status is not successful, it means the 
transaction is not completed. Such candidates have to pay the fee. 
d) Please note that fee submitted by any other mode like money order, demand draft, 
IPO etc. will be rejected. Fee once paid will not be refunded under any 
circumstances. 
 The candidates are NOT required to send hard copy of confirmation page to CTET Unit.   
However, the candidates are advised to retain the hard copy of the application for future 
reference. 
 
6. ELIGIBILITY 
The minimum qualifications for appearing in the CTET are as notified by NCTE. The candidates 
are advised to visit the website of NCTE https://ncte.gov.in to ascertain their eligibility. 
 
The minimum qualifications for the teaching staff should be in accordance with the following: 
 
i. National Council for Teacher Education (Determination of Minimum Qualifications for Persons to be 
recruited as Education Teachers and Physical Education Teachers in Pre -Primary, Primary, Upper 
Primary, Secondary, Senior Secondary or Intermediate Schools or Colleges) Regulations as amended 
and notified from time to time. 
 
ii. Minimum qualifications laid down in the Recruitment Rules for the teachers by the Appropriate 
Government where the school is situated or the Recruitment Rules for the teachers of Kendriya 
Vidyalaya Sangthan or Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti. 
iii. The candidate sho uld satisfy his/her eligibility before applying and shall be personally 
responsible in case he/she is not eligible to apply as per the given eligibility criteria. It is to be 
noted that if a candidate has been allowed to appear in the Central Teacher Eligi bility Test it 
does not imply that the candidate’s eligibility has been verified. It does not vest any right with 
the candidate for appointment. The eligibility shall be finally verified, by the concerned 
recruiting agency / appointing authority. 
 
Note: As  notified by NCTE, relaxation up to 5% in the qualifying marks in the minimum 
Educational Qualification for eligibility shall be allowed to the candidates belonging to reserved 
categories, such as SC/ST/ OBC/Differently-abled. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page3 
 
 
7. STRUCTURE AND CONTENT OF CTET 
 
All questions in CTET will be Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs), with four alternatives out of which 
one answer will be most appropriate. Each carrying one mark and there will be no negative marking. 
There will be two papers of CTET. 
(i) Paper I will be for a person who intends to be a teacher for classes I to V. 
(ii) Paper II will be for a person who intends to be a teacher for classes VI to VIII. 
 
Note: A person who intends to be a teacher for both levels (classes I to V and classes VI to VIII) will have to 
appear in both the papers (Paper I and Paper II). 
Paper I (for Classes I to V) Primary Stage; Duration of examination -Two-and-a-half hours 
Structure and Content (All Compulsory): (Appendix I) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nature and standard of questions: 
 The test items on Child Development and Pedagogy will focus on educational psychology of teaching 
and learning relevant to the age group of 6 -11 years. They will focus on understanding the 
characteristics and needs of dive rse learners, interaction with learners and the attributes and qualities 
of a good facilitator of learning. 
 The Test items in Language I will focus on the proficiencies related to the medium of instruction. 
 The Test items in Language II will focus on the e lements of language, communication and 
comprehension abilities. 
 Language II will be a language other than Language I. A candidate may choose any one language as 
Language I and other as Language II from the available language options and will be required to  
specify the same in the Confirmation Page. 
 Opt two languages in which you wish to appear for CTET: List of languages and code are as follows: 
Language Code No. Language Code 
No. 
Language Code No. Language Code No. 
English 01 Khasi 08 Punjabi         15 Dogri 22 
Hindi 02 Malayalam 09 Sanskrit 16 Kashmiri 23 
Assamese 03 Manipuri 10 Tamil 17 Konkani 24 
Bengali 04 Marathi 11 Telugu 18 Maithili 25 
Garo 05 Mizo 12 Tibetan 19 Santhali 26 
Gujarati 06 Nepali 13 Urdu 20 Sindhi 27 
Kannada 07 Odia 14 Bodo        21   
 The Test items in Mathematics and Environmental Studies will focus on the concepts, problem 
solving abilities and pedagogical understanding and applications of the subjects. In all these 
subject areas, the test items will be evenly distributed over differe nt divisions of the syllabus of 
that subject prescribed for classes I-V by the NCERT. 
 The questions in the test for Paper I will be based on the topics prescribed in syllabus of the 
NCERT for classes I - V but their difficulty standard as well as linkages,  could be up to the 
Secondary stage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i)  Child Deve lopme nt and Peda gogy (compulsory)  
 
30 MCQs 30 Marks 
(ii) Mat hemati cs (compulsory)  
 
30 MCQs 30 Marks 
(iii)  Environmen tal Stu dies  (compulsory)  
 
30 MCQs 30 Marks 
(iv)  Lan guage I (compulsory)  
 
30 MCQs 30 Marks 
(v)  Lan guage II (compul sory)  
 
30 MCQs 30 Marks 
Total 150 MCQs 
 
150 Marks 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page4 
 
 
 
 
Paper II (for Classes VI to VIII) Elementary Stage: Duration of examination -Two-and-a-half hours 
Structure and Content (All Compulsory): (Appendix I) 
 
(i) Child Development & Pedagogy (compulsory) 30 MCQs 30 Marks 
(ii) Mathematics and Science 60 MCQs 60 Marks 
(for Mathematics and Science teacher)    
OR 
(iii) Social Studies/Social Science 
  
60 MCQs 
 
60 Marks 
(for Social Studies/Social Science teacher)   
(iv) Language I (compulsory) 30 MCQs 30 Marks 
(v) Language II (compulsory) 30 MCQs 30 Marks 
*For any other teacher-either (ii) or (iii) 
Total 150 MCQs 150 Marks 
Nature and standard of questions: 
 The test items on Child Development and Pedagogy will focus on educational psychology of 
teaching and learning, relevant to the age group of 11 -14 years. They will focus on understanding 
the characteristics, needs and psychology of diverse learners, interaction with learners and the 
attributes and qualities of a good facilitator of learning. 
 The Test items in Language I will focus on the proficiencies related to the medium of instruction. 
 The Test items in Language II will focus on the elements of language, communication and 
comprehension abilities. 
 Language II will be a language other than Language I. A candidate may choose any one language 
as Language I and other as Language II from the available language options and will be required 
to specify the same in the Confirmation Page. 
 Opt two languages in which you wish to appear for CTET : List of  languages and code are as 
follows: 
Language Code No. Language Code 
No. 
Language Code No. Language Code No. 
English 01 Khasi 08 Punjabi         15 Dogri 22 
Hindi 02 Malayalam 09 Sanskrit 16 Kashmiri 23 
Assamese 03 Manipuri 10 Tamil 17 Konkani 24 
Bengali 04 Marathi 11 Telugu 18 Maithili 25 
Garo 05 Mizo 12 Tibetan 19 Santhali 26 
Gujarati 06 Nepali 13 Urdu 20 Sindhi 27 
Kannada 07 Odia 14 Bodo        21   
 
 The Test items in Mathematics and Science, and Social Studies/Social Science will focus on the 
concepts, problem solving abilities and pedagogical understanding and applications of the 
subjects. The test items of Mathematics and Science will be of 30 marks each. The test items will 
be evenly distributed over different divisions of the syllabus o f that subject as prescribed for 
classes VI-Vlll by the NCERT. 
 The questions in the test for Paper II will be based on the topics prescribed in syllabus of the 
NCERT for classes VI -VIII but their difficulty standard as well as linkages, could be up to the 
Senior Secondary stage. 
8. LANGUAGE OF THE QUESTION PAPER; 
Main question paper shall be Bilingual (Hindi/English). 
9. QUALIFYING MARKS AND AWARD OF CTET CERTIFICATE 
As per NCTE Notification No.76 -4/2010/NCTE/Acad dated 11.02.2011: A person  who scores 60% or 
more in the TET exam will be considered as TET pass. 
(a) School managements (Government, local bodies, government aided and unaided) may consider 
giving concessions to person belonging to SC/ST, OBC, differently abled persons, etc., in 
accordance with their extant reservation policy. 
(b) Should give weightage to the CTET scores in the recruitment process however, qualifying the 
CTET would not confer a right on any person for recruitment/employment as it is only one of the 
eligibility criteria for appointment. 
 
 
 
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page5 
 
 
10. APPLICABILITY 
(i) The CTET shall apply to schools of the Central Government (KVS, NVS, Central Tibetan Schools, etc.) 
and schools under the administrative control of UT‟s of Chandigarh, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman 
& Diu and Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and NCT of Delhi. 
(ii) CTET may also apply to the unaided private schools, who may exercise the option of considering 
the CTET. 
(iii) Schools owned and managed by the State Government/local bodies and aided schools shall 
consider the TET conducted by the State Government. However, a State Government can also 
consider the CTET if it decides not to conduct the State TET. 
(iv) According to CBSE Affiliation Bye -Laws, prescribing the minimum qualifications for teachers to 
teach various subjects in C lasses I to VIII in the schools Affiliated to CBSE stands amended to 
that extent and it shall be mandatory that the teachers appointed hereinafter i.e. 6th March, 2012 to 
teach classes I to VIII in the Schools affiliated to the CBSE shall qualify/pass the Central Teacher 
Eligibility Test or Teacher Eligibility Test (TET), conducted by the appropriate Central/ State 
Government in accordance with the Guidelines framed by the NCTE for this purpose. 
 
11. VALIDITY PERIOD OF CTET CERTIFICATE; 
The Validity Period of C TET qualifying certificate for appointment will be for life time for all categories. 
There is no restriction on the number of attempts a person can take for acquiring a CTET Certificate. A 
person who has qualified CTET may also appear again for improving his/her score. 
 
12. EXAMINATION CENTRES 
 
It is informed to all applicants that the option to select an exam city is not available on the online 
application portal. The examination city to the applicants will be allotted by CBSE on random basis. The 
request for change of allotted examination city, for whatsoever reason, shall not be accepted.  
Similarly, in case the examination is conducted on 05 th September 2026 in any city, the examination 
date 05 September or 06 September will be allotted to candidates on rand om basis. The request for 
change of allotted examination date, for whatsoever reason, shall not be accepted. 
 
 
13. E-ADMIT CARD 
The candidates may download e-Admit Card from CTET official website and appear for the examination 
at the given Centre. In case of a ny discrepancy noticed in e -admit card regarding particulars of 
candidate, photograph and signature or any other information which is different from confirmation page, 
he/she may immediately contact CTET Unit for necessary corrections. 
 
The candidates shall report at the Examination Centre at 7:30 AM for Paper – II (Morning) and at 
12:30 PM for Paper – I (Evening) i.e. 120 minutes before the commencement of the examination. 
Candidate(s) who report(s) at the examination centre after 09:30 AM in PAPER -II (Morning) and 
after 02:30 PM in PAPER- I (Evening) shall not be allowed to appear in the examination.  
 
The candidates are advised to read the instructions on the admit card carefully and follow them during 
the conduct of the examination. 
14. PROCEDURE FOR CONDUCT OF EXAMINATION 
Procedure for conduct of examination is given in Appendix-ll. 
Candidates are advised to go through the instructions carefully before proceeding for Examination. 
 
15. EXAMINATION FEE FOR CENTRAL TEACHER ELEGIBILITY TEST: 
 
 
CATEGORY Only Paper- I or II Both Paper-I & II 
General/OBC(NCL) Rs.1000/- Rs.1200/- 
SC/ST/Differently Abled Person Rs.500/- Rs.600/- 
 
GST as applicable will be charged extra by the Banks 
Fee once remitted shall not be refunded or adjusted for future test under any circumstances. 
 
 
 
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page6 
 
 
 
16. VERIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY 
It is to be noted that if a candidate has been allowed to appear in the Central Teacher Eligibility Test, it 
does not imply that the candidate’s eligibility has been verified. It does not vest any right with the 
candidate for appointment. The eligibility shall be finally verified, by the concerned recruiting 
agency/appointing authority. The candidate should satisfy his/her eligibili ty before applying and shall be 
personally responsible in case he/she is not eligible to apply as per the given eligibility criteria. 
 
17. FURNISHING OF FALSE, WRONG OR INACCURATE INFORMATION 
Furnishing of false, wrong or inaccurate information may lead to can cellation of the Test result, 
forfeiture of the certificate and even prosecution in appropriate cases. 
18. RE-CHECKING/RE-EVALUATION 
 
There shall be no re -evaluation/re-checking of result. No correspondence in this regard shall be 
entertained. 
19. AMANUENSIS 
 The facility of Scribe/Reader/Lab Assistant and/or compensatory time of 50 minutes would be allowed to 
the person with benchmark disability in the category of blindness/locomotor disability (both arm 
affected-BA)/cerebral palsy as defined under section 2(r ) or 2(s) of the RPWD Act 2016 . A candidate 
who claims to belong to any of these PwBD/PwD categories should show his/her original 
disability certificate on the prescribed proforma/ UDID card issued by appropriate issuing 
authority in support of his/her claim before the Centre Superintendent on the day of 
examination, failing which none of the facility will be provided to him. 
 
 The facility of Scribe/Reader/Lab Assistant and /or compensatory time of 50 minutes would also be 
allowed to candidates with othe r benchmark disabilities as defined under section 2(r) and 2(s) of the 
RPWD Act 2016 only if the candidate has limitation in writing including that of speed . A candidate 
who belong s to any other PwBD/PwD categories  and wish to avail facility of Scribe/Read er/Lab 
Assistant and/or compensatory time should show his/her original disability certificate on the prescribed 
proforma/UDID card issued by appropriate issuing authority as per rule and certificate to the effect 
that person concerned has limitation to write and that scribe is essential to write examination on 
his/her behalf from the competent medical authority of a Government healthcare institu tion on 
the prescribed proforma in support of his/her claim before the Centre Superintendent on the day of 
examination, failing which none of the facility will be provided to him.  
  
  The qualification of the scribe would be one class lower than the minimum qualification criteria 
of the post for which the examination is being conducted. However, the qualification of the 
scribe/reader would always be matriculate or above. 
 
 The scribe will be provided by the examination centre and the candidates, belonging to PwD/ 
PwBD category,  who require scribe will be allowed to meet scribe for a 20 -minute interaction 
session one hour before the start of examination at the assigned examination centre for 
ascertaining suitability of scribe. 
 
  There will be separate Question Paper in large font for Visually Impaired candidates. It may also 
be noted that normal Question Paper shall also be available at the examination centre to Visually 
Impaired candidates  which will be given to them on demand . It is the choice of Visually 
Challenged candidate to use either of the Question paper. 
                                                                                                                                                  
20. CERTIFICATE AND MARK SHEET 
CBSE will provide Central Teacher Eligibility T est (CTET) mark -sheets to all candidates and eligibility 
certificates to successful candidates in Digital Format in their DigiLocker account. The mark sheets and 
eligibility certificates will be digitally signed and will be legally valid as per the IT Act.  The mark sheets 
and eligibility certificates will also contain an encrypted QR Code to enhance security. The QR code 
can be scanned and verified using the DigiLocker mobile app. The DigiLocker accounts of the all 
present candidates will be created and the  account credentials will be conveyed to the candidates on 
their mobile numbers registered with CBSE. The candidates will be able to download their digital mark 
sheet and eligibility certificates using the communicated credentials. 
 
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page7 
 
 
 
21. WEEDING OUT RULES 
The records of Central Teacher Eligibility Test including OMR Answer Sheet is preserved only upto 
Two months from the date of declaration of result in accordance with CBSE Examination Weeding out 
rules. Thereafter it will be disposed of as per weeding out rules of the Board. 
22. DISPLAY OF SCANNED COPY OF OMR ANSWER SHEET/ANSWER KEY 
The OMR answer sheet and the Answer Keys of CTET examination will be displayed on official website 
of CTET for which a public notice will be issued on the website https://ctet.nic.in. The candidates may 
download the same in the stipulated time as notified in the Public Notice. The Answer Keys are likely to 
be displayed for two to three days to provide an opportunity to the candidates to challenge the 
answer(s) with a non -refundable pres cribed fee of Rs.1000/ - per question as processing charges, in 
case they are not satisfied with any of the answer(s). Only paid challenges made during stipulated time 
will be considered. Challenges without payment of fee and those submitted on any other me dium (viz. 
email/letter/representation) will not be considered. The Board’s decision on the challenges shall be final 
and no further communication will be entertained. The Board will not inform the Candidates individually 
about their challenges. The subjec t experts will examine all the challenges received and then the final 
answer keys will be prepared by them. The result will be declared according to the final answer keys. In 
case challenge on answer key(s) is accepted by the subject expert(s), the amount will be refunded to 
concerned candidate after declaration of result.  
After declaration of result, the candidates may seek photocopy of their OMR answer sheet of CTET 
along with calculation sheet by paying fee of Rs.500/ - per OMR, by way of Demand Draft in  favour of 
Secretary, Central Board of Secondary Education drawn on any Nationalized Bank and payable at 
Delhi. 
No grievance with regard to answer key(s) after declaration of result of CTET -SEPTEMBER, 
2026 will be entertained. 
23. LEGAL JURISDICTION 
All disputes pertaining to the conduct of CTET shall fall within the jurisdiction of Delhi only. The 
Secretary, CBSE shall be the legal person in whose name the Board may sue or may be sued. 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page8 
 
 
APPENDIX-I 
STRUCTURE AND CONTENT OF SYLLABUS 
(Paper I and Paper II) 
Paper I (for classes 1 to V) Primary Stage 
 
I. Child Development and Pedagogy 30 Questions 
a) Child Development (Primary School Child) 15 Questions 
• Concept of development and its relationship with learning 
• Principles of the development of children 
• Influence of Heredity& Environment 
• Socialization processes: Social world & children (Teacher, Parents, Peers) 
• Piaget, Kohlberg and Vygotsky: constructs and critical perspectives 
• Concepts of child-centered and progressive education 
• Critical perspective of the construct of Intelligence 
• Multi-Dimensional Intelligence 
• Language & Thought 
• Gender as a social construct; gender roles,gender -bias and educational practice. 
• Individual differences among learners, understanding differences based on diversity of 
language, caste, gender, community, religion etc. 
• Distinction between Assessment for learning and assessment of learning; School-Based 
Assessment, Continuous & Comprehensive Evaluation: perspective and practice 
• Formulating appropriate questions for assessing readiness levels of learners; for enhancing 
learning and critical thinking in the classroom and for assessing learner achievement. 
b) Concept of Inclusive education and understanding children with special needs 5 Questions 
• Addressing learners from diverse back grounds including disadvantaged and deprived 
• Addressing the needs of children with learning difficulties, “impairment” etc. 
• Addressing the Talented, Creative, Specially baled Learners 
c) Learning and Pedagogy 10 Questions 
• How children think and learn; how and why children “fail” to achieve success in school 
performance. 
• Basic processes of teaching and learning; children’s strategies of learning; learning as a social 
activity; social context of learning. 
• Child as a problem solver and a“ scientific investigator” 
• Alternative conceptions of learning in children, understanding children’s “errors” as significant 
steps in the learning process. 
• Cognition & Emotions 
• Motivation and learning 
• Factors contributing to learning-personal& environmental 
 
II Mathematics 30 Questions 
a) Content 15 Questions 
• Geometry 
• Shapes & Spatial Understanding 
• Solids around Us 
• Numbers 
• Addition and Subtraction 
• Multiplication 
• Division 
• Measurement 
• Weight 
• Time 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page9 
 
 
• Volume 
• Data Handling 
• Patterns 
• Money 
b) Pedagogical issues 15 Questions 
• Nature of Mathematics/ Logical thinking; understanding children’s thinking 
and reasoning patterns and strategies of making meaning and learning 
• Place of Mathematics in Curriculum 
• Language of Mathematics 
• Community Mathematics 
• Evaluation through formal and informal methods 
• Problems of Teaching 
• Error analysis and related aspects of learning and teaching 
• Diagnostic and Remedial Teaching 
III. Environmental Studies 30 Questions 
a) Content 15 Questions 
i. Family and Friends: 
Relationships  
Work and Play 
Animals  
Plants 
ii. Food 
iii. Shelter 
iv. Water 
v. Travel 
vi. Things We Make and Do 
b) Pedagogical Issues 15 Questions 
• Concept and scope of EVS 
• Significance of EVS, integrated EVS 
• Environmental Studies & Environmental Education 
• Learning Principles 
• Scope & relation to Science & Social Science 
• Approaches of presenting concepts 
• Activities 
• Experimentation/Practical Work 
• Discussion 
• CCE 
• Teaching material/Aids 
• Problems 
 
IV. Language I 30 Questions 
a) Language Comprehension 15 Questions 
• Reading unseen passages - two passages one prose or drama and one poem with questions 
on comprehension, inference, grammar and verbal ability (Prose passage may be literary, 
scientific, narrative or discursive) 
b) Pedagogy of Language Development 15 Questions 
• Learning and acquisition 
• Principles of language Teaching 
• Role of listening and speaking; function of language and how children use it as a tool 
• Critical perspective on the role of grammar in learning a language for communicating ideas 
verbally and in written form 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page10 
 
 
• Challenges of teaching language in a diverse classroom; language difficulties, errors and 
disorders 
• Language Skills 
• Evaluating language comprehension and proficiency: speaking, listening, reading and writing 
• Teaching-learning materials: Textbook, multi -media materials, multi lingual resource of the 
classroom 
• Remedial Teaching 
V. Language-II 30 Questions 
a) Comprehension 15 Questions 
• Two unseen prose passages (discursive or literary or narrative or scientific) with question on 
comprehension, grammar and verbal ability 
b) Pedagogy of Language Development 15 Questions 
• Learning and acquisition 
• Principles of language Teaching 
• Role of listening and speaking; function of language and how children use it as a tool 
• Critical perspective on the role of grammar in learning a language for communicating ideas 
verbally and in written form; 
• Challenges of teaching language in a diverse classroom; language difficulties, errors and 
disorders 
• Language Skills 
• Evaluating language comprehension and proficiency: speaking, listening, reading and writing 
• Teaching - learning materials: Textbook, multi -media materials, multilingual resource of the 
classroom 
• Remedial Teaching 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page11 
 
 
 
Paper II (for classes VI to VIII) Elementary Stage 
I. Child Development and Pedagogy 30 Questions 
a) Child Development(Elementary School Child) 15 Questions 
• Concept of development and its relationship with learning 
• Principles of the development of children 
• Influence of Heredity & Environment 
• Socialization processes: Social world &children(Teacher, Parents, Peers) 
• Piaget, Kohlberg and Vygotsky: constructs and critical perspectives 
• Concepts of child-centered and progressive education 
• Critical perspective of the construct of Intelligence 
• Multi-Dimensional Intelligence 
• Language & Thought 
• Gender as a social construct; gender roles, gender -bias and educational practice 
• Individual differences among learners, understanding differences based on diversity of 
language, caste, gender, community, religion etc. 
• Distinction between Assessment for learning and assessment of learning; School-Based 
Assessment, Continuous & Comprehensive Evaluation: perspective and practice 
• Formulating appropriate questions for assessing readiness levels of learners; for enhancing 
learning and critical thinking in the classroom and for assessing learner achievement. 
b) Concept of Inclusive education and understanding children with special needs 
5 Questions 
• Addressing learners from diverse back grounds including disadvantaged and deprived 
• Addressing the needs of children with learning difficulties, “impairment‟ etc. 
• Addressing the Talented, Creative, Specially abled Learners 
c) Learning and Pedagogy 10 Questions 
• How children think and learn; how and why children„ fail‟ to achieve success in school 
performance. 
• Basic processes of teaching and learning; children’s strategies of learning; learning as a social 
activity; social context of learning. 
• Child as a problem solve rand a “scientific investigator‟ 
• Alternative conceptions of learning in children, understanding children’s “errors‟  as significant 
steps in the learning process. 
• Cognition & Emotions 
• Motivation and learning 
• Factors contributing to learning-personal & environmental 
 
II. Mathematics and Science 
(i) Mathematics 
a) Content 
Number System 
• Knowing our Numbers 
• Playing with Numbers 
• Whole Numbers 
• Negative Numbers and Integers 
• Fractions 
 60 Questions 
30 Questions 
20 Questions 
Algebra  
 Introduction to Algebra 
 Ratio and Proportion 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page12 
 
 
Geometry 
 Basic geometrical ideas (2-D) 
 Understanding Elementary Shapes (2-Dand3-D) 
 Symmetry: (reflection) 
 Construction (using Straight edge Scale, protractor, compasses) 
 Mensuration 
 Data handling 
 
b) Pedagogical issues 10 Questions  
 
• Nature of Mathematics/Logical thinking 
• Place of Mathematics in Curriculum 
• Language of Mathematics 
• Community Mathematics 
• Evaluation 
• Remedial Teaching 
• Problem of Teaching 
ii) Science 30 Questions 
(a) Content 20 Questions 
 Food 
• Sources of food 
• Components of food 
• Cleaning food 
 Materials 
• Materials of daily use 
 The World of the Living 
 Moving Things People and Ideas 
 How things work 
• Electric current and circuits 
• Magnets 
 Natural Phenomena 
 Natural Resources 
b) Pedagogical issues 10 Questions 
• Nature & Structure of Sciences 
• Natural Science/Aims & objectives 
• Understanding & Appreciating Science 
• Approaches/Integrated Approach 
• Observation/Experiment/Discovery(Method of Science) 
• Innovation 
• Text Material/Aids 
• Evaluation-cognitive/psycho-motor/affective 
• Problems 
• Remedial Teaching 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page13 
 
 
 
 
III. 
a) 
Social Studies/Social Sciences 
Content 
 History 
60 Questions 
40 Questions 
 • When, Where and How  
 • The Earliest Societies  
 • The First Farmers and Herders  
 • The First Cities  
 • Early States 
• New Ideas 
 
 • the first Empire  
 • Contacts with Distant lands 
• Political Developments 
 
 • Culture and Science  
 • New Kings and Kingdoms  
 • Sultans of Delhi  
 • Architecture 
• Creation of an Empire 
 
 • Social Change  
 • Regional Cultures  
 • The Establishment of Company Power 
• Rural Life and Society 
 
 • Colonialism and Tribal Societies  
 • The Revolt of 1857-58  
 • Women and reform 
• Challenging the Caste System 
 
 • The Nationalist Movement  
 • India After Independence  
 
 Geography 
• Geography as a social study and as a science 
• Planet: Earth in the solar system 
• Globe 
• Environment in its totality: natural and human environment 
• Air 
• Water 
• Human Environment: settlement, transport and communication 
• Resources: Types-Natural and Human 
• Agriculture 
 
 Social and Political Life 
• Diversity 
• Government 
• Local Government 
• Making a Living 
• Democracy 
• State Government 
• Understanding Media 
• Unpacking Gender 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page14 
 
 
• The Constitution 
• Parliamentary Government 
• The Judiciary 
• Social Justice and the Marginalised 
II. Pedagogical issues 20 Questions 
• Concept & Nature of Social Science/Social Studies 
• Class Room Processes, activities and discourse 
• Developing Critical thinking 
• Enquiry/Empirical Evidence 
• Problems of teaching Social Science/Social Studies 
• Sources- Primary & Secondary 
• Projects Work 
• Evaluation 
IV. Language I 30 Questions 
• Language Comprehension 15 Questions 
Reading unseen passages -two passages one prose or drama and one poem with questions on 
comprehension, inference, grammar and verbal ability (Prose passage may be literary, scientific, 
narrative or discursive) 
• Pedagogy of Language Development     15 Questions 
• Learning and acquisition 
• Principles of language Teaching 
• Role of listening and speaking; function of language and how children use 
• IT as a tool 
• Critical perspective on the role of grammar in learning a language for communicating ideas verbally and 
in written form; 
• Challenges of teaching language in a diverse classroom; language difficulties, errors and disorders 
• Language Skills 
• Evaluating language comprehension and proficiency: speaking, listening, reading and writing 
• Teaching-learning materials: Textbook, multi-media materials, multi lingual resource of the classroom 
• Remedial Teaching 
V. Language-II 30 Questions 
• Comprehension 15 Questions 
• Two unseen prose passages (discursive or literary or narrative or scientific) with 
question on comprehension, grammar and verbal ability 
• Pedagogy of Language Development     15 Questions 
• Learning and acquisition 
• Principles of language Teaching 
• Role of listening and speaking; function of language and how children use it as a tool 
• Critical perspective on the role of grammar in learning a language for communicating ideas verbally and 
in written form; 
• Challenges of teaching language in a diverse classroom ; language difficulties, errors and disorders 
• Language Skills 
• Evaluating language comprehension and proficiency: speaking, listening, reading and writing 
• Teaching- learning materials: Textbook, multi-media materials, multi lingual resource of the classroom 
• Remedial Teaching 
 
Note: For Detailed syllabus of classes l-VIII, please refer to NCERT syllabus and text books 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page15 
 
 
APPENDIX-II 
A. PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED DURING CONDUCT OF CTET 
1. The examination rooms/hall will be opened at  7:30 AM for Paper – II (Morning) and at 12:30 PM for 
Paper– I (Evening) to be held on 06.09.2026 i.e. 120 minutes before the commenc ement of test. 
Candidates should take their seat immediately after opening of the examination hall. If the candidates do 
not report in time due to any reason i.e. traffic jam, train/bus delay etc, they are likely to miss some of the 
general instructions to be announced in the Examination Hall. 
2. Since the biometric authentication may be introduced at the examination centres, so you are 
advised to reach the centre well in time so as to save time loss in attempting your examination. 
In case you reach the examination centre at last minute, you may lose your examination time. 
3. The candidate must show,  the Admit Card downloaded from CTET official website for admission in the 
examination room/hall. A candidate who does not possess the valid Admit Card shall not be permitted 
for the examination under any circumstances by the Centre Superintendent. 
4. A seat indicating roll number will be allocated to each candidate. Candidates should find and occupy 
their allocated seat only. Any candidate found to have changed room or the seat on his/her own other 
than allotted, his/her candidature shall be cancelled and no plea would be accepted for it. 
5. A candidate who comes after the commencement of the examination shall not be permitted to sit 
in the examination. The candidates shall report at 7:30 AM for Paper – II (Morning) and at 12:30 
PM for Paper– I (Evening) to be held on 06.09.2026 i.e. 120 minutes before the examination. 
6. Candidates are not allowed to carry the following items inside the centres:- 
a) Any stationery item like textual material (printed or written), bits of papers, Geometry/Pencil 
Box, Plastic Pouch, Cal culator, Scale, Writing Pad, Pen drives, Eraser, Whitener, Calculator, 
Log Table, Electronic Pen/scanner, Cardboard etc. 
b) Any communication devices like Mobile phones, Bluetooth, Earphones, Microphone, Pager, 
Health band etc. 
c) Any Watch/Wrist watch, wallet, goggles, handbags, Gold/artificial ornaments etc. 
d) Any other item which could be used for unfair means and for hiding communication 
devices/gadgets like Camera, Bluetooth device etc. 
7. No candidate, without the special permission of the Invigilator concerned, will leave his/her seat or 
Examination Room until the full duration of the paper is over. Candidate should not leave the room/hall 
without handing over their Answer Sheets to the In vigilator on duty and sign the attendance sheet 
second time. Cases where a candidate has not signed the Attendance Sheet second time will be 
deemed not to have handed over the OMR Sheet and dealt with as an unfair means case.  
8. Smoking, chewing gutka, spiting etc. in the Examination Hall/Room is strictly prohibited. 
9. Tea, coffee, cold drinks or snacks are not allowed to be taken into the examination rooms during 
examination hours. 
10. Fifteen minutes before the commencement of the paper, each candidate will be giv en sealed Test 
Booklet with an Answer Sheet placed inside it.   
11. Immediately on receipt of the Test Booklet the candidates will fill in the required particulars on the 
cover page of the Test Booklet with their own Ball Point Pens (Black/Blue). The Candidate s should 
bring their own Ball Point Pen (Black/Blue) of good quality as this time PEN will not be supplied by 
the Board. He /She will not open the Test Booklet until asked to do so by the Invigilator. Do not 
open/break the seal before the announcement.  
IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS PRIOR TO EXAMINATION  
12. Five minutes before the commencement of the paper the candidate will be asked to break/open the 
seal of the Test Booklet . The candidate should check carefully that the Test Booklet Code printed 
on Side-2 of the OMR Sheet is the same as printed on the Test Booklet. In case of discrepancy, the 
candidate should immediately report the matter to the Invigilator for replacement o f both the Test 
Booklet and OMR Sheet.  
13. The candidate will write the correct Test Booklet code or number as given in the Test Booklet/ OMR 
sheet in the Attendance Sheet.  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page16 
 
 
 
14. The candidates must bring their own ball point pen (Black/Blue) of good quality  as this time PEN 
will not be supplied by the Board. Use of pencil is strictly prohibited. OMR sheets filled with pencils 
will be rejected and no correspondence will be entertained in this regard. Candidates will mark the 
answers on OMR sheet only after the announcement of the invigilator. 
15. The test will start exactly at the time mentioned in the Admit Card and an announcement to this 
effect will be made by the invigilator. 
16. During the examination invigilator will check Admit Card of all the candidates to verify the 
identity of the candidate. 
 
17. After completing the test and before handing over the OMR Sheet, the candidate should check 
again that all the particulars required in the OMR Sheet have been filled correctly.  
 
18. The announcement about the beginning of the test, half time and closing of test will be made by the 
invigilator. The candidate must stop marking their responses immediately after the closing of test 
announcement has been made by invigilator.  
 
19. After break/open the seal of the Test -booklet the candidate must check that the test -booklet 
contains the same number of pages as mentioned on the first page of the Test -booklet. In case of 
any discrepancy in Test -booklet i.e. page missing, tear pages & misprinting, the same should be 
informed to the invi gilator immediately. The candidate shall not remove any page(s) from the Test -
Booklet during the test. If any candidate is found to remove any page(s) from the Test Booklet it will 
be presumed as use of unfair means and shall be liable for criminal action.   
 
20. The candidates must sign twice on the Attendance Sheet at the appropriate place. Firstly, 
immediately after commencement of the test and for the second time while handing over OMR 
Sheet to the Invigilator. 
 
21. The responses (answers) marked by the candidat es on the OMR sheet may be analysed with other 
candidates to detect patterns of similarity of right and wrong answers. If in the analytical procedure 
adopted in this regard, it is inferred/concluded that the responses have been shared and scores 
obtained are not genuine/valid, the candidature of such candidates may be cancelled.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page17 
 
 
 
UNFAIRMEANS: 
During the course of examination, a candidate indulging in any of the following activities shall be deemed to 
have used unfair means: 
1. A candidate appearing for an examination is found using or attempting to use unfair means at the 
examination or behaving in a disorderly manner. 
2. Candidates after having entered and taken their seats in the examination hall/room and after the 
distribution of the Test B ooklets, decide not to appear in the examination under one or other pleas and 
decide to leave their seats of the examination with or without signing the attendance sheet second time, 
with or without submitting the OMR Sheets to the invigilator. 
3. Communicating with and / or disturbing other candidates or consulting other persons inside/outside the 
examination room during the examination. 
4. Being in possession of books, notes, bits of papers, geometry / pencil box, plastic pouch, pen, scale, log 
table, writing pad, eraser, whitener, cardboard, electronic devices or any other material relevant or not 
relevant with the examination. 
5. Carrying and/or using the electronics & communication devices/equipments that are prohibited during 
the examinations including but not  limited to watch, wrist watch, mobile phones, earphone, 
microphones, cameras, headphones, pen -drives, pager, Bluetooth devices, calculator, electronic 
pen/scanners etc. 
6. Carrying any other item which could be used for unfair means and for hiding communicat ion devices 
like Camera, Bluetooth devices etc. 
7. Taking frequent breaks to move out from allotted seat at the test centre with or without the consent of 
the invigilator. 
8. Threatening or physically or verbally abusing or indulging in any kind of misbehavior w ith invigilator / 
fellow candidates or any person connected with the conduct of examination either inside or outside the 
examination hall. 
9. Tearing of any page of the test booklet or any part of OMR Sheet, put stray marks on OMR Sheet etc.  
10. Writing name, Rol l No., putting signature at any place other than the space provided for or any other 
mark in the OMR Sheet which may disclose the identity of the candidate.  
11. Disclosing / transmitting the contents of the Questions / corresponding answers or any information 
therein in whole or part thereof in any form or by any means i.e. verbal, written, electronically or 
mechanically for any purpose. 
12. Pressurizing the invigilator for issues including but not limited to extra time allotment, allow to sit for 
examination in the absence of necessary Admit Card/ Photo ID proofs. 
13. Carrying and/or consuming food and/or carrying/consuming alcoholic/non -alcoholic beverages etc. 
excluding drinking water or entering the Test Centre inside the examination hall.  
14. Carrying and/or using weapons/scissor/knife etc. inside the examination hall. 
15. Receiving or giving assistance to the fellow candidate(s) directly or indirectly, receiving outside help 
in any form. 
16. The following act/s shall be deemed as Impersonation, but not limited to: 
 Manipulation and fabrication in online documents viz. admit card. 
 Affixing of fabricated photograph on the application form. 
 Appearing for examination for another candidate or arranging to have another person take an 
    examination for the candidate. 
 Allowing/Making somebody else to marking answers on candidate’s behalf during examination  
 Helping or receiving help from other candidates to impersonate. 
 Signing Attendance sheet on somebody else’s behalf either partially or completely.  
 Moving onto another candidate’s seat during the course of examination. 
 Providing admit card to another person to enable him to appear on behalf of the candidate.  
17. Candidates shall maintain proper silence and attend their Question Paper only. Any conversation or 
gesticulation or disturbance i n the Examination Room/Hall shall be deemed as misbehavior. If a 
candidate is found using unfair means or impersonating, his/her candidature for current 
examination shall be cancelled and he/she may also be debarred for future examination(s).  
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page18 
 
 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE OF TEST BOOKLET AND OMR SHEET  
 
1 The candidates will find the OMR Sheet placed inside the sealed Test Booklet. The seal will 
be broken/ opened by the candidates after the announcement by the invigilator and the OMR 
Sheet shall be taken out from th e Test Booklet. Do not open/break the seal before the 
announcement.  
 
2 Code like A, B, C or D printed on OMR sheet will be same as mentioned on Test Booklet. 
 
3 The OMR Sheet used will be of special type which will be scanned on Optical Scanner. The 
candidates should ensure that the OMR Sheet is not folded. Do not make any stray marks 
on the OMR Sheet. Do not write your Roll No. anywhere else except in the specifi ed space 
in the OMR Sheet  
 
Side 1   The side 1 of OMR Sheet contains the following columns which are to be filled in neatly and 
accurately by the candidate with their own Ball Point Pen (Black/Blue). Use of pencil is 
strictly prohibited.  
i) Roll Number  
ii) Name of the candidate  
iii) Father’s Name  
iv) Centre Number  
v) Name of the Examination Centre  
vi) Subject offered for Paper-ll(Only in case of Paper-ll)  
 
Side 2  The side 2 of OMR Sheet contains the following columns which are also to be filled by the 
candidate with their own Ball Point Pen (Black/Blue). Use of pencil is strictly prohibited.  
 
i) Roll Number 
ii) Main Test Booklet Number  
iii) Language Supplement Booklet Number  
iv) Language Supplement Booklet Code  
v) Subject offered for Paper-ll(Only in case of Paper-ll)   
vi) Language in which you have attempted the questions   
vii) Signature of the candidate 
 
  
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page19 
 
 
 
WRITING OF PARTICULARS AND RESPONSES ON SIDE -2 WITH BALL POINT PEN ONLY 
WILL BE FILLED UP AS FOLLOWS.  
 
 
IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS FOR MARKING THE RESPONSES 
 
 i) Out of four alternatives for each question, only one circle for the most appropriate answer is to  
be darkened completely with Ball Point Pen. For example Question No. 008 in the Test Booklet 
reads as follows: The capital city of Nepal is  
(1) Kathmandu  
(2) Dubai  
(3) Tokya 
(4) Dibrugarh 
The correct response to this question is (1) Kathmandu. The candidate will locate Question No.008 
in the Answer Sheet and darken the  _____circle 1 as shown below:  
008 1 2 3 4  
iii) Use Ball Point Pen to completely darken the appropriate circle, i.e. one circle for each entry. 
In case of more than one option is darkened the marks will not be awarded.  
iv) The answer/circle marked/darkened once by the candidate is final and not to be changed. 
Before filling the particulars or responses, candidate must ensure that the details marked will be as 
per admit card. Use of pencil is strictly prohibited. If any candidate uses the pencil for darkening the 
answer sheet, his/her answer sheet will be rejected.  
v) A light, faintly and incomplete darkened circle is a wrong method for marking and liable to be 
rejected by the Optical Scanner. Any other mark 3 or 5 etc. may not get captured by the scanner.   
vi) If the candidate does not want to attempt any question he/she should not darken the circle 
given against the question.   
vii) Please do not fold the Answer Sheet and do not make any stray marks on it.  
 
4. ROUGH WORK  
The candidate will not do any rough work on the OMR Sheet. All rough work is to be done on the 
space provided in the Test Booklet.  
 
5. CHANGING AN ANSWER IS NOT ALLOWED  
The candidate must fully satisfy themselves about the accuracy of the answer before darkening the 
appropriate circle as no change in answer once marked is allowed. Use of eraser or 
white/correction fluid on the OMR Sheet is not permissible as the OM R Sheets are machine 
gradable and it may lead to wrong evaluation for which all responsibility lies on the candidate.  
6. Prior to handing over the Answer Sheet soon after the examination is over, the candidate must 
sign the attendance sheet as a proof the reof. The candidate is permitted to carry the Test Booklet 
only after the completion of test.  
7. In case of any discrepancy regarding non availability of OMR Sheet of any Candidate at the time 
of evaluation, it will be presumed that the candidate has take n away the answer sheet with the test 
booklet and in such case the result of the candidate will be liable to be cancelled. 
  
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                        
Page20 
 
 
 
INSTRUCTIONS 
(Please read the instructions carefully before filling the OMR Answer Sheet) 
 
1.  Before you start  answering, Question Paper Booklet Number should be written in the space 
provided and appropriate circles must be darkened in the OMR Answer Sheet. 
Note: If the candidate falls to darken the correct Question Paper Booklet Number or 
leaves it blank, the OMR Answer Sheet will  be liable for rejection, and no  
correspondence in this regard shall be entertained. 
2. Sign on the OMR Answer Sheet in the space provided, make sure that the Invigilator signs in the 
space provided. 
3. OMR Answer sheet  will be machine graded  and processed by electronic means i.e., Computers and 
Scanners. Invalidation of OMR Answer Sheet due to incomplete I incorrect filling of the OMR Answer 
Sheet will be the sole responsibility of the candidate. 
4. Use Blue/ Black Ball Point Pen to darken the circles. Pens with any other colors are prohibited. Do not 
use Pencil or Ink/ Gel pen. 
5. Do not write or mark outside the demarcated areas on this OMR Answer Sheet as it may invalidate 
the OMR Answer Sheet. Do not write irrelevant matter or scribble on this sheet. Do not fold, tear, 
wrinkle or staple this sheet. 
6. Changing an answer is NOT ALLOWED : 
• While answering, choose the BEST alternative answer from the four choices given below the 
question and darken the same in the corresponding circle in the OMR Answer Sheet. Do not 
shade more than one circle for a question. 
• The candidates must fully satisfy themselves about the accuracy of the answer before darkening 
the appropriate circle, as change of  answer after  darkening one  circle will also lead to 
invalidation of that answer. 
• Use of eraser or white fluid on the OMR Answer Sheet is not permitted, as the OMR Answer  
Sheets are machine gradable, and it may lead to invalidation. 
7. The candidate should return the OMR Answer Sheet before leaving the Examination Hall. Failure to 
do so will make him/ her liable for criminal action besides rejection of his/ her candidature. 
 
8. Correct / incorrect way of darkening/shading is shown in the table below for strict compliance. The 
Invalid responses may or may not read by the scanner. 
 
 
Note (1) : Response is Valid, if only darkened one circle property. i.e. either 1 (or) 2 (or)3 (or) 4 and if it 
is the correct answer, mark will be awarded. Even if candidate feels that there are two answers, only 
one circle should be darkened, which is nearest  or closest to answer. If two or  more circles are  
darkened, it will be treated as INVALID. The invalid question may or may not readable by the scanner  
 
9. In case the candidate violates any of the OMR Answer Sheet related instructions, the OMR Answer Sheet is 
liable to be REJECTED 

Page21 
 
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                         
 
 
APPENDIX-IV 
IMPORTANT NOTES: 
Candidates can apply for CTET –SEPTEMBER, 2026 “ONLINE” through CTET website https://ctet.nic.in 
or CBSE website https://www.cbse.gov.in w.e.f. 11.05.2026 to 10.06.2026 (Before11:59PM) 
1. The candidate applying for CTET is required:- 
i) To go through the Information Bulletin carefully with the entire requirement therein. 
ii) To satisfy eligibility to appear in the examination. 
iii) To submit On-line application by giving full particulars by accessing the CTET official website 
https://ctet.nic.in or the CBSE official website https://www.cbse.gov.in 
iv) To write complete mailing address with Postal PIN Code at the time of applying. 
v) Before submission of application form, decide the mode of payment of fee. 
vi) To keep the Confirmation Page for future reference. 
vii) If a candidate submits more than one online application, his/her candidature shall be liable 
to be cancelled and the candidate may  also be debarred for future examination(s). No 
communication will be sent in this regard. 
2. Method of Submission of Online Application Form: 
STEP1: Log on to CTET official website https://ctet.nic.in or CBSE website 
https://www.cbse.gov.in 
STEP2:  Go to the link “Apply Online” and open the same. 
STEP3: Fill in the Online Application Form and note down Registration Number/ Application 
Number. 
(a) Authentication Form: Fill details like State, Identification type (select any  Identity as 
applicable), Candidate’s Name, Date of Birth, Gender and Security Pin. 
(b) Fill Online Application Form: Fill complete online Application Form and choose password. 
After submission, a Registration Number/Application Number gets generated. Note dow n 
the Registration No./Application No. For subsequent login, system generated Registration 
No. / Application No. and chosen Password will be used. 
 Candidate is advised not to disclose or share the password with anybody. Neither CTET 
nor NIC will be responsible for violation or misuse of the password of a candidate. 
 Candidate should logout at the end of their sessions of that the contents of the 
application cannot be tampered by unauthorized persons. 
STEP3: Upload Scanned Images of latest Photograph and Signature 
i) Uploading of scanned Photo and Signature are mandatory. 
ii) Upload scanned photograph and signature in JPG/JPEG format. 
iii) Size of scanned photograph should be between 10to100KB 
iv) Image Dimension of photograph should be 3.5 cm (width) x 4.5 cm (height). 
v) Size of scanned signature should be between 3 KB to 30 KB. 
vi) Image Dimension of signature should be 3.5 cm (length) x 1.5 cm (height). 
The candidates are advised to keep the scanned images of latest photograph and signature of the 
candidates ready in JPG/JPEG format and as per the size and dimension specified, before applying 
online. 
The scanned image of latest photograph is required to u pload to avoid the inconvenience at centre, as 
this photograph will be matched with the actual candidate appearing in the examination. 
STEP4: Pay examination Fee by debit/credit card/Net Banking. 
Fee Details for CTET–SEPTEMBER, 2026 are as follows: 
CATEGORY Only Paper-I or II Both Paper-I & II 
General/OBC(NCL) Rs.1000/- Rs.1200/- 
SC/ST/Differently Abled Person Rs.500/- Rs.600/- 
GST as applicable will be charged extra by the Bank 
Mode of Payment: 
 By Online-mode (Payment by Debit Card/Credit Card). 
The candidate has to select the desired option to pay and follow the instructions to complete the 
payment process. After successful payment, candidate will be able to print the “Confirmation Page”. 
Page22 
 
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                         
 
 
 By Net Banking: The candidate has to select the desired option to pay and follow the instructions to 
complete the payment process. After successful payment candidate will be able to print the 
confirmation page. 
In case, the fee payment status is not “OK” the candidates are advised as following:- 
 If the fee is paid through credit/debit card and status is not OK, it mea ns the transaction is cancelled 
and the amount will be refunded to concerned credit/debit card within a week. Such candidates have 
to pay the fee once again. 
 If the fee is paid through net banking and status is not successful, it means the transaction is n ot 
completed. Such candidates have to pay the fee. 
 Please note that fee submitted by any other mode like money order, demand draft, IPO etc. 
will be rejected. Fee once paid will not be refunded under any circumstances. 
 
STEP 5: Print Confirmation page for record and future reference. Candidates are required to take 
printout of Confirmation Page for record and keep it for their reference. The Confirmation Page is not 
required to be sent to CTET Unit. 
 
3. The candidate should satisfy his/her eligibility before applying and shall be personally 
responsible in case he/she is not eligible to apply as per the given eligibility criteria. 
4. Candidate should enter his/her particulars i.e. Name, Father’s Name, Mother’s Name and Date of 
Birth as per Class Xth Certificate. Please note that no request for any change in particular will be 
accepted under any circumstances after the specified date for online correction is over. 
 
Application Form should be filled-in as follows: 
Screen1: 
(a) State: Candidate should select State from the drop down List as per his/ her Address. 
(b) Identity Type and Identification Number: Candidate should select identity type from the drop down list, 
to ascertain his/her identity and write the identification type number. 
(c) Candidate’s Name: Candidate should write his/her Name as recorded in the Class X Secondary Board 
Certificate. 
(d) Date of Birth: Mention Date of Birth as recorded in the Class X Secondary Board Certificate. 
(e) Gender: Select Gender: Male, Female, Transgender. 
(f) Enter Security pin 
Screen2: 
1. Candidate’s Particulars:- 
a) Candidate’s Name, Gender and Date of Birth will be auto-filled from the previous screen (Screen-
1).Candidate may modify information filled in these fields, if required. 
b) Candidate’s Mother Name: Candidate should write his/her Mother’s name as recorded in the 
Class X Secondary Board Certificate, in CAPITAL letters. 
c) Candidate’s Father Name: Candidate should write his/her Father’s name, as recorded in the 
Class X Secondary Board Certificate, in CAPITAL letters. 
2. Languages Offered for CTET: 
a) Select two languages in which you wish to appear for CTET. List of languages offered along with 
their codes are as follows: 
Language Code No. Language Code No. Language Code No. Language Code No. 
English 01 Khasi 08 Punjabi         15 Dogri 22 
Hindi 02 Malayalam 09 Sanskrit 16 Kashmiri 23 
Assamese 03 Manipuri 10 Tamil 17 Konkani 24 
Bengali 04 Marathi 11 Telugu 18 Maithili 25 
Garo 05 Mizo 12 Tibetan 19 Santhali 26 
Gujarati 06 Nepali 13 Urdu 20 Sindhi 27 
Kannada 07 Odia 14 Bodo        21   
Language I: Shall focus on the proficiencies related to the medium of instructions. Candidate is 
required to select any one from the Languages list. 
Language II: Shall focus on the elements of language, communication and comprehensive abilities. 
Candidate is required to select any one from the Languages list. 
Note: 
i. Language II should be different from Language I. 
ii. The candidates must attempt questions in languages opted by him as mentioned in 
the Admit Card. In case the questions are attempted in any other languages, the 
candidature of such candidates shall be cancelled. 
3. Differently Abled:  
Page23 
 
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                         
 
A. Person with benchmark disability (PwBD): 
Are you a person with benchmark disability (PwBD) as per section 2 (r) of RPwD Act 2016?  
If “Yes‟ is selected, please select any of the following from differently-abled drop down menu box: 
i) VI (Blindness and Low Vision),  
ii) HH ( Deaf and Hard of Hearing),  
iii) OH (Locomotor disability including cerebral palsy, leprosy cured, dwarfism, acid attack victims and 
muscular dystrophy)  
iv) Other Disabilities (As notified by Government of India) 
B. Person with disability (PwD): 
Are you a person with disability (PwD) as per section 2 (s) of RPwD Act 2016 and do you 
need scribe/writer during the examination due to limitation in writing? 
4. Personal Details: 
a) Category: 
Select any of the following from category drop down box: General, SC, ST and OBC 
b) Status of Qualifying Exam: 
Select the status from drop down menu box. If qualified, select “Passed” else select “Appearing in 
Final Exam‟. 
c) Employment Status: 
Mention employment status by selecting any of the options available in drop-down menu box. 
d) Applying for : 
Select Paper I if you intent to apply for becoming teacher for classes I to V Select Paper II if you intent to 
apply for becoming teacher for classes VI to VIII 
 
Select Both (Paper I & Paper II) if you intent to apply for becoming teacher for the both i.e. classes I to V 
and VI to VIII 
5. Minimum Educational Qualifications for teaching Classes I to V and VI to VIII 
Candidate must possess Minimum Educational Qualifications for becoming a teacher for Class I to V and 
VI to VIII. 
6. Minimum Educational Qualifications for becoming teacher for Classes I-V 
Select appropriate Code from drop down menu box if you intent to apply for beco ming teacher for 
classes I to V 
7. Minimum Educational Qualifications for becoming teacher for Classes VI-VIII 
Select appropriate Code from drop down menu box if you intent to apply for becoming teacher for 
classes VI to VIII. 
Note: The candidate not having a ny of the above qualifications shall not be eligible for 
appearing in Central Teacher Eligibility Test. The candidate should satisfy his/her eligibility before 
applying and shall be personally responsible in case he/she is not eligible to apply as per the given 
eligibility criteria. 
i) Subject offered for Paper-II i.e. if applying for paper II (classes VI to VIII) 
Candidates, who intent to apply for becoming teacher for classes VI to VIII, should mention the 
choice of subject. The options of subject are: 
1) Mathematics &Science 
2) Social Science. 
Note: The candidates who apply for Paper -II only or Both Papers and do not mention the 
subject offered for Paper – II shall not be eligible and the application will be 
rejected & fee will be forfeited without any further communication. 
8. Educational Degree/Diploma Colleges details: 
A drop down facility has been provided to the candidates to choose the college from where they have 
obtained their B. Ed. Degree/Diploma in Education/ Elementary Education etc. In case the name of 
their college is not given in the drop down list, they may choose the option OTHER and fill in 
the required particulars. The candidate may mention the percentage of marks obtained by him/her 
in the Degree/Diploma in Education/Elementary Education etc. The decimal part may be ignored e.g.55 
for 55.32% or 65 for 65.69%. The Candidates who are appearing in their final exam may mention the 
percentage of marks scored by them in their previous years/semesters. 
9. Mailing Address/Mobile No./Email-ID: 
a) Candidate may write complete mailing address in CAPITAL letters including PIN CODE as the 
same is required for further communication. The Board will NOT be responsible for non-receipt 
Page24 
 
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                         
 
of communication/information etc. in case the postal address is not complete or wrong. 
b) Mobile No. 
The candidate has to write his/her currently working  mobile number as the updates/alerts 
related to CTET shall be sent to candidate’s mobile number. It is responsibility of candidates to 
put his/her mobile number operational to receive i nformation/notice related to CTET 
Examination. 
c) STD Code with Telephone No.(Optional): 
Mention telephone number with STD code. 
d) E-mail ID: 
The candidate has to write his/her own valid E -mail ID as the updates/alerts related to CTET 
shall be sent to candidate’s E-mail ID. 
10. Password Generation: Password Policy will be as follows: 
1. Password must be 8 to 13 characters long. 
2. Password must have at least one Upper case, one lower case alphabet and one numeric value 
and at least one special characters!@#$%^&*- 
3. Candidate can change the passwords after login, if desired. New Password cannot be identical 
to any of the previous three passwords. 
11. Security Pin: 
Enter security pin as shown on the screen. 
 After filling all the required information on the Application Form, click “Next” or “Reset” button. 
 “Next” button proceed for “Review Page” and “Reset” button resets all the fields of 
Application Form filled by the candidate and candidate shall fill -in all the information again on 
the blank application form. 
 Candidate shall check all the information filled -in by him/her in the Review page. After checking 
the particulars in the Review page , click on “Final Submit”, if all the particulars are correct, 
Else click “Back” button and correct the particulars and then click on “Final Submit” button on 
review page. 
 
Note down the Registration No./Application No. 
 In case candidate loose his/her Registration No./Application No./Roll No., Board will not be 
responsible for any consequence. The Board will not entertain any request in this regard. 
 Proceed for Images uploading, Fee payment and Print confirmation page for record. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Page25 
 
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                         
 
 
 
APPENDIX- V    
 
 
 
 
Certificate regarding physical limitation in an examinee to write  
 
 
 
 
This is to certify that, I have examined Mr/Ms/Mrs ------------------------------------------ (name 
of the candidate with disability), a person with ---------------------------------------- (nature and 
percentage of disability as with mentioned in the certificate of disability), S/o/D/o --------------------
-------------- a resident of ---------------------------------- (Village/District/State) and to state that 
he/she has physical limitation which hampers his/her writing capabilities owing to his/her 
disability.  
 
 
 
 
 
Signature  
 
 
 
Chief Medical Officer/ Civil Surgeon/ Medical 
Superintendent of a Government health care institution  
  
 
Name & Designation.  
 
Name of Government Hospital/ Health Care Centre with Seal  
 
 
Place:  
 
Date:  
 
 
 
Note:  
 
Certificate should be given by a specialist of the relevant stream/ disability (e.g., Visual 
impairment - Ophthalmologist, Locomotor disability - Prthopaedic specialist/ PMR).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page26 
 
 
                                                                    CTET– SEPTEMBER, 2026                                                         
 
The candidate should mention their own mobile number and E -Mail ID while submitting their on -line 
application as the CTET alerts will be sent to the candidates on their registered mobile number and E - Mail 
ID only. 
Qualifying the CTET would not confer a right on any person for Recruitment/Employment as it is only one 
of the eligibility criteria for appointment. 
 
 
APPENDIX-VII 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION AT A GLANCE FOR CTET – SPETEMBER, 2026 
 
Start of submission of online application through 
CTET website https://ctet.nic.in or CBSE 
website https://www.cbse.gov.in 
11.05.2026 
Last Date for submission of online application 
form 10.06.2026 upto23:59hrs 
Last Date for submission of fee through 
Debit/Credit Card/Net Banking 10.06.2026 upto23:59hrs 
Online corrections if any, in the particulars 
uploaded by the candidate 15.06.2026 to 18.06.2026 (No corrections shall 
be allowed under any circumstances after this 
date) 
Download Admit Card Two Days before the day of examination 
Date of Examination 06-09-2026 (SUNDAY) 
Declaration of Result By the end of OCTOBER, 2026 (TENTATIVELY) 
TIME SCHEDULE 
 
Date of Examination 06-09-2026 
(Sunday) 
PAPER PAPER II PAPER I 
SHIFT MORNING EVENING 
Entry in the Examination Centre 07:30 AM 12:30 PM 
Checking of Admit Cards 09:00 AM to 09:15 AM 02:00 PM to 02:15 PM 
Distribution of Test Booklet 09:15 AM 02:15 PM 
Seal of the Test Booklet to be broken/ 
Opened to take out the Answer Sheet 
09:25 A.M. 02:25 PM 
Last Entry in the Examination Centre/ 
Gate Closer of Exam Centre 
09:30 AM 02:30 PM 
Test Commences 09:30 AM 02:30 PM 
Test Concludes 12:00 Noon 05:00 PM 
 
#
Candidates will not be permitted to enter the Examination Centre after the commencement of the 
examination as per time schedule given above/Admit Card. 
 
Page27 
 
 
NOTE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page28 
 
 
 CTET Information Bulletin 2026  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CENTRAL BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION 
CBSE Integrated Office Complex, Sector-23, Phase-1, Dwarka, New Delhi-110077 
Tel.:011-24050477 
Website: https://ctet.nic.in & https://www.cbse.gov.in 
