K-TET 2012
1/1
Syllabus - Category I
KERALA TEACHER ELIGIBILITY TEST
(K-TET) 2012
SYLLABUS
Government of Kerala
Department of Education
State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT)
KERALA
August 2012

K-TET 2012
1/2
Syllabus - Category I
Category I - Paper I
(For Classes I to V)
K-TET 2012
1/3
Syllabus - Category I
KERALA TEACHER ELIGIBILITY TEST (K-TET) 2012
Category I - Paper I  (For Classes I to V)
SYLLABUS
I. CHILD DEVELOPMENT AND PEDAGOGY 30 Questions
Child Development and Learning (15 Questions)
• Methods of studying child behaviour - observation, case study, Interview, Psychological tests etc.
• Concept of development
• Principles of growth and development
• Influence of heredity and environment on human development
• Concept of learning
• Basic theories of learning : Conditioning (Pavlov, Skinner); Insight learning (Gestalt); cognitive
learning (Piaget, Bruner and Vygotsky)
• Relation between development and learning : learner readiness of maturation
• Piaget, Kohlberg and Vygotsky : Constructs and critical perspectives.
• Concept of child - centered and progressive education - Activity based method of Teaching and
Learning, Problem Based Learning
• Critical perspectives of construct of intelligence (Theories of Spearman, Guilford, Thurstone and
Gardner).
• Language and Thought (Basic perspectives of Piaget, Chomsky and Vygotsky).
• Gender as a social construct: Gender roles, gender bias and educational practice
• Individual differences among learners, understanding differences based on diversity of language,
caste, gender, community, religion etc.,
• Distinction between - Assessment for learning and Assessment of learning - school based Assessment
(Internal assessment)
• Continuous and comprehensive evaluation: Perspectives and practice
• Assessing learner achievement - grading
• Personality development - concept of personality and basic approaches to personality (Psychoanalytic
and Trait) - Adjustment mechanisms
Concepts of inclusive education and understanding children with special needs (5 Questions)
• Concept of exceptional children
• Concept of children with special needs (CWSN)
• Addressing learners from diverse backgrounds including disadvantaged and deprived
• Concept of learning disability (LD) - Addressing the needs of children with learning disabilities
• Addressing the Talented, creative, specially abled children
K-TET 2012
1/4
Syllabus - Category I
Learning and pedagogy (10 Questions)
• How children think and learn: how and why children fail to achieve success in school performance
• Different factors influencing learning and achievement
• Basic process of teaching and learning: Children’s strategies of learning - Learning as a social
activity - social context of learning
• Child as a problem solver and ‘scientific investigator’ (concept of the nature of child by Piaget,
Bruner and Vygotsky)
• Alternative concepts of Learning in children: Understanding children’s’ ‘errors’ as significant steps
in the learning process (Self - corrective nature of the child)
• Cognition and Emotions - Emotion - Basic Emotions - characteristics of childhood emotionality.
Emotional Development (Bridge’s)- cognition (Thinking, Reasoning, Problems solving and
Investigation)
• Motivation and learning - How does motivation influence learning - Maslow’s theory of motivation
• Factors contributing to learning - Personal and environmental
Note:
(i) Emphasis should be given to questions related to classroom contexts,
(ii) Classroom context should be primary level.
Total 30 Questions 30 Marks
K-TET 2012
1/5
Syllabus - Category I
II. LANGUAGE I - M ALAYALAM/KANNADA/TAMIL
A. MALAYALAM 30 Questions
1. Ah-[m-cWw (KZ-yw) (A©v _lp- hn-I-ev]-tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 5 am¿°v)
A. tI{μm-ibw Is≠-Ø¬
B. \nK-a\ cq]o-I-cWw
C. hni-I-e\w
2. Ah-X-cWw (]Z-yw) (A©v _lp-hn-I-ev]- tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 5 am¿°v)
A. tI{μm-ibw Is≠-Ø¬
B. Imh-y-_nw-_-ßƒ Is≠-Ø¬
C. hym-J-ym-\n-°¬
3. amXr-`mjm t_m[-\-imkv{Xw ( I-V) (]Øvv _lp-hn-I-ev]-tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 10 am¿°v)
A. `mjm-]-T\ kn≤m-¥-ßƒ
B. hy-X-ykvX Ign-hp-I-fp≈ Ip´n-Iƒ°v {]tX-yI ]cn-K-W\ \¬Ip∂ `mjm]T\w
C. ]mT-y]≤Xn hn\n-a-b-Øns‚ coXn-imkv{Xw
4. `mj kmln-X-yw, kwkvImcw (]Øvv _lp-hn-I-ev]-tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 10 am¿°v)
A. ssien-Ifpw {]tbm-K-ßfpw
B. {]mtbm-Kn-I hym-I-cWw
C. ]g-s©m-√p-Iƒ \
D. kmln-X-y-cq-]-ßƒ
E. Xmf-t_m-[w.
Total 30 Marks
B. TAMIL 30 Questions
1. Reading Comprehension - Prose (5 Questions)
A. Comprehension of theme
B. Interpretation
C. Inference
2. Reading Comprehension - Poem. (5 Questions)
A. Comprehension of themes
B. Poetic images
C. Interpretation
3. Pedagogical aspects of Mothertongue Education - Class - I - V (10 Questions)
A.  Principles of Language Learning
B. Classroom practices
C. Inclusion of differently abled children
D. Methodology of curriculum Transaction
K-TET 2012
1/6
Syllabus - Category I
4. Language, Literature and culture. (10 Questions)
A. Books and Authors
B. Functional Grammar
C. Proverbs
D. Forms of Literature
E. Tamil Festivals
Total  30 Marks
C.  KANNADA 30 Questions
1. Reading comprehension - Prose (5 Questions)
A. Comprehension of Theme
B. Interpretation
C. Inference
2. Reading comprehension –Poem (5 Questions)
A. Comprehension of Theme
B. Poetic images
3. Pedagogical aspects of Kannada Language – Class 1 to 5 (10 Questions)
A. Principles of Language learning
B. Classroom Practices
C. Inclusion of differently abled children
D. Methodology of curriculum transaction
4. History of Language, Literature and Culture (10 Questions)
A. Idioms, Phrases and usages
B. Functional grammar
C. Proverbs
D. Rhythms
Total  30 Marks
K-TET 2012
1/7
Syllabus - Category I
III. LANGUAGE II - E NGLISH/ARABIC
A. ENGLISH 30 Questions
Language II will have questions for 30 marks, of which 15 marks will be for language comprehension  and
15 marks for pedagogy. Each question carries one mark.
The language comprehension part questions, will be from an unfamiliar passage or poem to test reading
comprehension, grammar and verbal ability.
A. Language Comprehension (15 Questions)
i)  Comprehension passage :
The unfamiliar passages are intended to check factual, inferential, analytical and evaluative
comprehension.
ii) Grammar
Language elements included in the Course books of standard I to V . Such as :
• Article
• Concord
• Interrogatives
Yes / No Questions
‘wh’ - Questions
• Question tags • Prepositions
• Tense and Time • Determiners
• Phrasal verbs • Gerunds
• Reflexive Pronouns • Linkers
• Auxiliaries
iii) V erbal ability
• V ocabulary
• Inflexions
• Affixes
- Prefix
- Suffix
• Antonyms, Synonyms
• Idioms and  Phrases
B. Pedagogy of language development
(15 Questions)
Questions will be based on the present Kerala Primary school curriculum (English)
• Language Acquisition and Learning
Learning vs acquisition - Major schools of thought .
• Principles of Language Learning
Constructivism - Social Constructivism - Critical Pedagogy - Error Treatment - Cognitivism
K-TET 2012
1/8
Syllabus - Category I
• Language and Thought
Different views of Whorf, Piaget, Vygotsky and Chomsky - Relationship between language and thought.
• Objectives of Teaching English
Relevance of English - Curricular Objectives.
• Language skills and communication skills
Ways of improving language / communication skills - classroom activities - tools.
• ICT based aids in language teaching
• Modern Strategies
Nurturing multiple intelligence
Instruction to cater individual differences - Teaching learners with special needs.
• Evaluation
continuous and comprehensive evaluation - assessment of skills and products.
Total  30 Marks
B. ARABIC 30 Questions
K-TET 2012
1/9
Syllabus - Category I
Total  30 Marks
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL S CIENCE 30 Questions
a. Content ( 20 questions)
• Family Æ Relationships, job and duties of family members
• Water Æ Water sources, conservation of water, water pollution, prevention of
water pollution
• Agriculture Æ Different types of agriculture, tools of agriculture,  agricultural product,
herbal garden
• Vehicles Æ Types of vehicles used
• Soil Æ Different soils, soil pollution. Prevention of soil pollution, soil erosion
• Earth Æ Ecosystem, environmental protection, impact of pollution on earth,
remedial measures
• Shelters Æ Types of shelters, characteristics of animal shelters
• Diseases Æ Different types of diseases, causes, remedial measures, healthy habits
• Food Æ Types of food - natural and artificial foods, their merits and demerits
• Jobs Æ Types of jobs, different types of tools
• Public Institute Æ Services of people by public institute
• Energy Æ Types of energy, conservation of energy
• Animal world Æ Varieties of animals, movement, food habits, uses of animals
• Plants Æ Variety of plants-uses-herbal garden, photosynthesis
• First aid Æ Different types of first aid, need for first aid box
• Solar system Æ Plants, stars, sky, water
• Air Æ Importance of nature, air pollution, remediation
• Light Æ Eye, protection of eye, sources of light. reflection of light, shadow.
b. Pedagogy (10 questions)
• Science Æ Scope, meaning, history of science, role of science in human
development
• Aims of learning science Æ Cognitive area, process skill area, scientific attitude, application
area, scientific creativity
K-TET 2012
1/10
Syllabus - Category I
• Supplementary activities for enhancing science learning
Æ Bulletin board, science club, wall magazine, day celebrations,
quiz etc
• Scientific process Æ Steps in scientific process
• Different process skills Æ Its developmental strategies
• Characteristics of science teaching
• Approaches of science teaching
Æ Nature of learning activities, evaluation process etc
• Integrated approach in environmental science
• Evaluation strategy in science classes
Æ Grading
• Different strategies in science teaching-learning process
Æ Projects, seminars, debates, experiments, field trips etc
• Role of science teacher
• Learning aids Æ need, scope
• Unit analysis Æ Comprehensive planning - teaching manual
• Pedagogic analysis
• Analysis of primary science curriculum
• Action Research
• Evaluation system Æ Grading - continuous evaluation - preparation and
administration of evaluation tools
Total  30 Marks
V.  MATHEMATICS 30 Questions
The examination will be broadly based on topics prescribed for class 1 to 5 in the Kerala State Syllabus for
Mathematics, but some problems may have links to extensions of these concepts to the secondary stage.
1. Content (20 questions)
Numbers:
Natural Numbers : Place value, ordering, addition, subtraction, multiplication and division of natural numbers,
factors and multiples, prime numbers, practical problems.
Fractions : Fraction of a measure such as metre, litre, gram. Fractional parts of objects. Equal fractions,
Operations on fraction. Decimal representation of fractions related to metric units of length, volume,
weight.  Operations on decimals, practical problems.
Geometry :
Perimeter of rectilinear figures (polygons), area of rectangles, patterns of geometrical figures, practical
problems.
Measurements :
Basic operations in solving problems involving, length, weight, capacity, time, money and practical problems.
2. Pedagogy (20 questions)
K-TET 2012
1/11
Syllabus - Category I
Nature of Mathematics
Abstraction, Understanding children’s thinking and reasoning. Language of Mathematics.
Place of Mathematics in Curriculum
Aims and objectives of learning mathematics in primary classes -Values of mathematics learning
Correlation with other subjects, Lower Primary and Upper Primary Mathematics, curriculum, syllabus
Mathematics - Trends and Developments
Historical development of mathematics great mathematicians and their contributions
Approach to Mathematics Learning
Proper learning experiences keeping in mind the characteristics of children, their natural learning capacity
and the learning process
Theoretical base of learning mathematics
Teaching of Mathematics - Strategies and Methods
Teaching strategies- Concept attainment, process oriented teaching, projects, seminars, assignments, field
trip.
Different teaching learning methods –Inductive and deductive method, analytic and synthetic method,
project method, laboratory method.
Learning Materials in Mathematics
Textbook and handbooks, information technology, mathematics club, mathematics laboratory, mathematics
fair, mathematics library collecting mathematical puzzles, riddles.
Mathematics Learning - Evaluation
Concept of continuous and comprehensive evaluation, evaluation activities, grading and recording the
results diagnosis, remedial teaching and error analysis.
