K-TET 2012
2/1
Syllabus - Category II
Category II - Paper II
(For classes VI to VIII)
K-TET 2012
2/2
Syllabus - Category II
KERALA TEACHER ELIGIBILITY TEST (K-TET) 2012
Category II - Paper II  (For classes VI to VIII)
SYLLABUS
I. CHILD DEVELOPMENT AND PEDAGOGY 30 Questions
A. Child development ( Elementary Child) (15 Questions)
1. Concept of development and its relation with learning
Growth and Development - stages of development - Infancy, Child hood, Adolescence - Maturation -
Relationship between development, Maturation and learning.
Principles of development of children
Major principles of growth and development - Implication of learning -
Influence of Heredity and Environment
Role of Heredity and Environment on the development of child -Teacher's role.
2. Socialization Process
Concept of Socialization - Social world and children: Role of family, peers, teachers in the process of
socialization - pattern of social development - Erick Erikson's theory of psychosocial development.
3. Piaget, Kohlberg, Vygotsky - Constructs and Critical Perspectives
Cognitive development theory of Piaget, Kohlberg's theory of moral development - Vygotsky's theory of
social constructivism - Educational Implications.
4. Concept of child centered and progressive Education.
Concept of child centeredness - Individual difference - Methods of teaching and learning - Activity methods
- Concept of progressive education - Role of teacher.
5. Critical perspective of the construct of Intelligence
Concept of Intelligence - Theories of intelligence - factor theories - S -I model of Intellect - multiple
Intelligences - Concept of I Q - Intelligence Tests (Examples) - Sternberg's Information processing theory.
6. Language and Thought
Language development - stages, Theories - Piaget, Vygotsky, Chomsky - Relationship between language
and thought -approaches to language learning and teaching.
7. Gender as a social construct
Gender Roles, bias, educational practices - Gender equality - teacher's role.
8. Individual difference among learners
Understanding differences based on diversity of language, caste, gender, community, religion etc.  Individual
difference - socio cultural determinants
9. Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation
( C C E) Concept - Assessment to learning - strategies - Cumulative records, Anecdotal records,  Portfolios
Assessment Techniques. - Feed back
10. Nature of prior learning
Readiness for learning - Strategies for assessment - Encouraging critical thinking - Teacher's role.
K-TET 2012
2/3
Syllabus - Category II
B. Inclusive Education (5 Questions)
Addressing learners from diverse back grounds - including disadvantaged and deprived. LD, MR, O P H,
Sensorily  deprived - socially and culturally deprived - Educational Implications/ Addressing the needs of
LD. Exceptional children - Gifted, creative, specially abled children - Educational provision - Needs -
characteristics - Identification and Remedial measures
C. Learning and Pedagogy (10 Questions)
Identification of individual learner needs - Intellectual, Emotional, Social, Creative needs, Catering to the
individual needs of learners.
1. Process of teaching and learning -
Creating Learning situations - criteria of learning experiences - different modes of learning - social learning
(Bandura) - co-operative and collaborative learning, Group discussion - Role of Teacher.
2. Cognitive Process and Emotions
Perception - concept formation - thinking - Imagination - Reasoning -  Inductive and deductive - Problem
solving - Memory - Emotional development - characteristics, Emotional maturity   Emotional Intelligence
- Emotional Quittance (EQ)
3. Motivation and Learning
Learning - Factors affecting Learning - Theories of Learning - Pavlov, Thorndike, Skinner, Gagne’s
hierarchy of learning, Insightful learning (Kohler) - Constructivism - Piaget, Bruner, Vygotsky, Ausubel -
Educational Implications
Motivation - Concept, types - Importance to learning - Theories of motivation - Abraham Maslow, Mc
Clelland
4. Personality and adjustment
Concept  - Approaches - Type, Trait - Allport - Measurement of personality - Projective and Non projective
techniques - Adjustment Mechanisms
Total 30 Marks
K-TET 2012
2/4
Syllabus - Category II
II. LANGUAGE I - M ALAYALAM/ENGLISH/TAMIL/KANNADA
A. MALAYALAM 30 Questions
1. Ah-[m-cWw (KZ-yw)
A. tI{μm-ibw Is≠-Ø¬
B. hni-I-e\w
C. \nK-a\cq]o-I-cWw (A©v _l p-hn-I-ev]- tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 5 am¿°v)
2. Ah-X-cWw (]Z-yw)
A. tI{μm-ibw Is≠-Ø¬
B. A¿∞ km[-y-X-Iƒ Is≠-Ø¬
C. hym-J-ym-\w (A©v _lp-hn-I-ev]- tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 5 am¿°v)
3. amXr-`mjm]T-\-Øns‚ t_m[-\-imkv{Xw (¢m v VI-VIII)
A. `mjm-]-T\w kw_-‘n® kn≤m-¥-ßƒ
B. hy-X-ykvX Ign-hp-I-fp≈ Ip´n-Iƒ°v {]tX-yI ]cn-K-W\ \¬I¬
C. ]mT-y-]≤Xn hn\n-a-b-Øns‚ coXn-imkv{Xw (]Øvv _lp-hn-I-ev]- tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 10 am¿°v)
4. `mj, kmln-X-yw, kwkvImcw
A. ssien-Ifpw {]tbm-K-ßfpw
B. {]mtbm-Kn-I hym-I-cWw
C. ]g-s©m-√p-Iƒ
D. kmln-X-y-Ønse \qX\ {]h-W-X-Iƒ
E. Imh-y-imkv{Xw
F. Xmf-t_m[w (]Øvv _lp-hn-I-ev]- tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 10 am¿°v)
(BsI 30 _lp-hn-I-ev]- tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 30 am¿°v)
B. ENGLISH 30 Questions
a. Language Comprehension 15 Questions
• An unfamiliar passage or poem with questions on reading comprehension, inference, vocabulary
and language elements.
• Questions to evaluate the knowledge of basic grammar such as Tense forms, Articles, Prepositions
and Linkers.
b. Pedagogy of Language Development 15 Questions
• Language Acquisition and Learning - Theories and their classroom implications.
• Principles of Language Teaching
• Language skills - Strategies to develop them
• Problems and challenges in language classrooms
• Teaching learning materials - Textbook, ICT and other teaching  aids.
• Learner Assessment - Self, Peer, Teacher
• Strategies for teaching children with special needs (CWSN)
• Teacher Attitude and Aptitude
Total 30 Marks
K-TET 2012
2/5
Syllabus - Category II
C. TAMIL 30 Questions
1. Reading Comprehension - Prose 5 Questions
A. Comprehension of theme
B. Interpretation
C. Inference
2. Reading Comprehension - Poem. 5 Questions
A. Poetic images
B. Comprehension of  themes
C. Interpretation
E. Extended Meaning
3. Pedagogical aspects of Mothertongue education - Class - VI - VIII 10 Questions
A. Principles of Language Learning
B. Inclusion of differently abled children
C. Methodology of curriculum Transaction
4. Language Literature and culture. 10 Questions
A. Books and Authors
B. Functional Grammar
C. Proverbs
D. Trends in Literature
E. Foreign Contribution in Tamil Literature
F. Tamil Festivals and Folk Arts
Total 30 Marks
D. KANNADA 30 Questions
1. Reading comprehension - Prose 5 Questions
A. Comprehension of Theme
B. Interpretation
C. Inference
2. Reading comprehension –Poem
5 Questions
A. Comprehension of Theme
B. Poetic images
C. Poetic emotions and feelings
D. Imaginating elements
3. Pedagogical aspects of Kannada Language – Class 6 to 8
10 Questions
A. Principles of Language learning
B. Classroom Practices
C. Inclusion of differently abled children
D. Methodology of curriculum transaction
4. History of Language, Literature and Culture
10 Questions
A. Idioms, Phrases and usages
B. Functional grammar
C. Proverbs
D. Rhythms
E. History and Forms of Literature
Total 30 Marks
K-TET 2012
2/6
Syllabus - Category II
III. LANGUAGE II - M ALAYALAM/ENGLISH/HINDI/
ARABIC/URDU/SANSKRIT
A. MALAYALAM 30 Questions
1. Ah-[m-cWw ˛ KZ-yw (A©v _lp- hn-I-ev]- tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 5 am¿°v)
A. tI{μm-ibw Is≠-Ø¬
B. hni-I-e\w
C. \nK-a\cq]o-I-cWw
2. Ah-[m-cWw ˛ ]Z-yw (A©v _lp -hn-I-ev]-tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 5 am¿°v)
A. Imh-y-_nw-_-ßƒ Is≠-Ø¬
B. tI{μm-ibw Is≠-Ø¬
C. hym-J-ym-\n°¬
D. A¿∞Xe-ßƒ Is≠-Ø¬
3. -`mjm ]T-\-Øns‚ t_m[-\-imkv{Xw (¢m v VI-VIII)
(]Øvv _lp-hn-I-ev]- tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 10 am¿°v)
A. `mjm-]-T\kn≤m-¥-ßƒ
B. hy-X-ykvX Ign-hp-I-fp≈ Ip´n-Iƒ°v {]tX-yI ]cn-K-W\ \¬I¬
C. ]mT-y-]≤Xnhn\n-a-b-Øns‚ coXn-imkv{Xw
4. `mj, kmln-X-yw, kwkvImcw (]Øvv _lp-hn-I-ev]- tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 10 am¿°v)
A. ssien-Ifpw {]tbm-K-ßfpw
B. {]mtbm-Kn-I hym-I-cWw
C. ]g-s©m-√p-Iƒ
D. kmln-X-y-Ønse \qX\ {]h-W-X-Iƒ
E. Imh-y-imkv{Xw
F. Xmf-t_m[w
(BsI 30 _lp-hn-I-ev]- tNm-Zy-ßƒ°v 30 am¿°v)
B. ENGLISH 30 Questions
a. Language Comprehension 15 Questions
• One or two unfamiliar passages or poems with questions on comprehension, inference, vocabulary
and elements of grammar.
• A few questions to evaluate knowledge of basic grammar, such as
- Article
- Concord
- Question tags
- Prepositions
K-TET 2012
2/7
Syllabus - Category II
- Tense and time
- Modal Auxiliaries
- Phrasal verbs and idioms
- Degrees of comparison
- Active and passive voice
- Reported speech
- Language functions
- Error identification
b. Pedagogy of Language Development 15 Questions
• Language Acquisition and Learning - Theories and their classroom implications.
• Principles of Language Teaching
• Problems and challenges in the language classrooms
• Language skills - strategies to develop them
• Teaching learning materials - Textbook, ICT and other teaching aids.
• Assessment - Self, Peer, Teacher
• Strategies for teaching children with special needs (CWSN)
Total 30 Marks
C. HINDI 30 Questions
A.  Pedagogy of language development. 15 Questions
• Concepts and process in language learning and acquisition.
• Developments - principles of language teaching.
• Role of listening and speaking.
• Functions of language and how children use it as a tool in formal and informal situations.
• Role of grammar in learning language for communicating ideas verbally and in written forms-
critical perspective.
•  Challenges in language teaching.
•  Diverse classroom - errors and disorders.
•  Language skills.
•  Evaluation in language learning-comprehension and proficiency.
•  Teaching-learning material-other resource materials to be used in class rooms.
•  Remedial measures to be taken in language class.
•  Creating proper interactive situations in language class rooms.
• Competence of a teacher in selecting proper extended materials in language  class rooms.
• Various forms of presentation of discourses in language class rooms.
• How to address the special needs of differently abled children in language  class rooms.
B. Questions for Language comprehension - 15 Questions
Reading unseen passages (prose, poem) and elements of language
K-TET 2012
2/8
Syllabus - Category II
Division of Questions
Question from Poem 5 Questions
Question from Prose 6 Questions
Question from Language Elements 4 Questions
(Translation, technical terms, history of  language, language elements)
• Question to be asked on the basis of the poem given to test the competence to comprehend ideas
and enjoy the poetic emotions and feelings, imaginative elements, ideas and views beyond the lines,
particular forms of composition, etc.
• Questions on the given prose or drama to test the competencey  for comprehension, interpretation
and language usage.
• Language elements like structure of sentences, combination of words, usage of words in various
situations, idioms in use and  basic grammar.
• History & Culture of Languages - Major landmarks - developments of modern prose (Discourses)
Total 30 Marks
D. ARABIC 30 Questions
K-TET 2012
2/9
Syllabus - Category II
Total 30 Marks
E. URDU 30 Questions

K-TET 2012
2/10
Syllabus - Category II
Total 30 Marks
F.  SANSKRIT 30 Questions
(A) Language Comprehension 15 Questions
(i) +o˘˘π]Δı M…t¶……M…Δ/x……]ıEΔÚ {… `ˆi¥…… i…n¬˘M…i…|…∂x……x……x……®…÷k…Æ˙…h……®…R¬ÛEÚx…®…¬* ˜˜§…Ω÷˛ ¥…EÚ±{…®……i…ﬁEÚ…|…∂x……& π…]¬ı*
{…n˘®…¬, +…∂…™…&, ∫…Œxv…&, ∫…®……∫…&, v……i…÷&, ±…EÚ…Æ˙&, EÚ…Æ˙EÚ®…¬, |…™……‰M…&*
(ii) +o˘π]Δıı ∂±……‰EΔÚ/∫…÷¶…… π…i…Δ {… `ˆi¥…… i…n¬˘M…i…|…∂x……x……®…¬ =k…Æ˙…R¬ÛEÚ˜x…®…¬* ˜§…Ω÷˛ ¥…EÚ±{…®……i…ﬁEÚ…|…∂x……& {…\S…*
{…n˘®…¬, +…∂…™…&, ¥…ﬁk…®…¬, +±…R¬ÛEÚ…Æ˙&, ∫…Œxv…&, ∫…®……∫…&*
(iii) ∫…Δ∫EﬁÚi…∂……∫j…/ ∫…… Ω˛i™…∫…®§…Œxv… ∫……®……x™…Y……x…®…¬* S…i¥……Æ˙& |…∂x……&*
K-TET 2012
2/11
Syllabus - Category II
(B) Pedagogy of Language Development - 15 Questions
(i) ¶……π……¥…M…®…&* (Learning and acquisition)
(ii) ¶……π……§……‰v…x…i…k¥…… x…* (Principles of Language teaching)
(iii) ¶……π……v…®……«& i…‰π……Δ UÙ…j……h……Δ ={…™……‰ M…i…… S…* (Role of listening and speaking, function of language and how
children use it as a tool)
(iv) ®……Ë J…EÚÆ˙“i™…… ¥…… S…EÆ˙“i™…… S… +…∂…™… ¥… x…®…™……l…» ¥™……EÚÆ˙h……v™…™…x…∫™……¥…∂™…˛EÚi……* (Critical perspective on the role of
grammer in learning a language for communicating ideas verbally and in written form)
(v) ¶……π……v™……{…x…∫…®…∫™……&* (Challenges of teaching language in diverse classrooms - language difficulties, errors
and disorders)
(vi) ∫…ΔEÚ ±…i… ∂…˛I……* (Inclusive education)
(vii) ¶……π……x…Ë{…÷h™…&*  (Language skills)
(viii) ¶……π……¥…M…®…∫™… ¶……π……x…Ë{…÷h…“x……Δ S… ®…⁄±™……R¬ÛEÚx…Δ - ∏…¥…h…®…¬, ¶……π…h…®…¬, ¥……S…x…®…¬, ±…‰J…x…®…¬ * (Evaluating language compre-
hension and proficiency - speaking, listening, reading and writing)
(ix) {…`ˆx……‰{…EÚÆ˙h…… x… - {……`ˆ{…÷∫i…EÚ®…¬, x…⁄i…x…∫……R¬ÛE‰Ú i…EÚ∫……®…O…™…&, §…Ω÷˛¶……π……™…÷HÚEÚI™……* (Teaching learning materials -
textbook, multi-media materials, multi lingual resources of the classroom)
(x) {… Æ˙Ω˛…Æ˙§……‰v…x…®…¬, (Remedial teaching)
Total 30 Marks
IV.A SCIENCE & MATHEMATICS 60 Questions
SCIENCE 30 Questions
a) Content 20 Questions
{ Germination of seed
• Steps of seed germination.
• Plant adaptations.
• Pest-pest control.
• Chemical and biological pest control.
{
Cell
• Cell structure.
• Cell organelles.
• Tissue.
• Types of tissues.
• Organ system.
• Levels of  organisation.
{ Diseases
• Micro organisms.
• Mode of disease transmission.
• Preventive measures.
{ Pollution
• Different types of pollution.
• Bio-degradable and non bio degradable pollutants.
• Plastic waste.
K-TET 2012
2/12
Syllabus - Category II
{ Cardio vascular system
• Heart -blood-lymph
• Arteries- veins- capillaries
• Cardio vascular diseases
{ Cellular equilibrium
• Osmosis-diffusion-active transport
• Cellular equilibrium
{ Excretion
• Kidney-skin.
{ Plant reproduction
• Agents of pollination
• Seed dispersal
• Types of fruits.
{ Animal nutrition
• Human digestive system
• Indigenous food
• Food adulteration.
{ Human nervous system
• Brain-nervous disorders.
{ Body structure
• Human skeletal system
• Joints
• First aid.
{ Agriculture
• Hybrid varieties of plants
• Crop rotation
• Nitrogen fixation
• Vegetative propagation- (budding, grafting, layering)
• Tissue culture
• Plant nutrition
• Chemical and bio fertilizers
• Integrated farming
• Pisciculture- sericulture- epiculture
• Plant diseases-plant disease control measures
• Agricultural garden- agricultural research institutes.
• Indegenous varieties of animals- hybrid varieties  of animals.
• Taxonomy
• Two kingdom and five kingdom classification
• Binomial nomenclature.
{ Ecosystem
• Food chain- food web- positive and negative interactions.
{ Bio diversity
• Conservation of bio diversity
K-TET 2012
2/13
Syllabus - Category II
• Biosphere reserve- national park- zoological park- gene bank-
• Endemic species
• Hot spot- sustainable development.
{ Transparent and opaque objects
Reflection of light - images-different types of mirrors. solar eclipse-lunar eclipse-orbit-satellite-
information technology, Image formation by spherical mirrors.
{ Solar system
Sun, planets, satellites, asteroids, meteorites, comets, etc.
{ Simple machines
Inclined plane-pulleys-lever-fulcrum-resistance-effort -application of simple machines-electromagnet
{ Magnetism
Properties of magnet, applications, earth's magnetism
{ Energy
Different forms of energy-fuels-conservation of energy-forms of fuels-potential energy- kinetic
energy-evaporation of water-
{ Thermal Expansion
Density - heat and change of state-sea breeze and land breeze-atmospheric pressure and its
application-fluid pressure. temperature, thermometer
{ Static Electricity
Frictional electricity, electroscope, earthing, lightning and lightning arresters, conductors and insulators.
{ Sound
Production of sound-characteristics of sound, application of sound (sonar, ultra sound etc) propagation
of sound - sound pollution-musical instruments.
{ Motion
 Different types of motion-uniform, non-uniform speed-velocity-acceleration-Newton's laws of
motion-friction-advantages and disadvantages.
{ Thermal conductivity
Radiation-applications of thermal insulators (flask, casseroles)
{ Basic concepts of force
Types of force-inertia-relation between inertia and mass.
Basic concepts of thrust and pressure-relationship between surface area and thrust.
Atmospheric pressure - barometer
{ Different types of mixtures
Methods of separation of pure substances-acids and bases and its characteristics, reaction with
metals and carbonates.
Neutralisation, PH
{ Metals
Metals and its characteristics-prevention of corrosion.
{ Cosmetics
{ Chemical reactions and its classification
Chemical reactions in day to day life-effect of chemical reactions on nature.
K-TET 2012
2/14
Syllabus - Category II
Molecules and atoms- fundamental concepts-classification of matter-symbols of elements-properties
of elements and matter-structure of atom-discovery-Dalton's concept- atom model-Bohr' model of
atom-atomic number and mass number.
Octet electronic configuration
Role of electrons in bonding- valency-ions - atomicity
b. Pedagogy 10 Questions
Approaches to the science curriculum-criticism of contemporary science education-Aims and objectives
of science education-science literacy.
Approaches of science education-taxonomy of science education.
Knowledge domain
Problem solving skills-creativity domain-attitudinal domain-application domain
Scientific inquiry
Pedagogic strategies-activity based - collaborative and cooperative learning.
Significance of the history of science
Significance of laboratory
Evaluation, CCE, assessment of performance
Scientific attitude
Methods of science teaching
Role of science teacher
Teaching and learning aids
Psychological basis of science learning
Total 30 marks
MATHEMATICS 30 Questions
The examination will be broadly based on the topics prescribed for classes 6 to 8 in the Kerala State
syllabus for mathematics but some problems may have links to extension of these concepts to the Higher
Secondary stage. The details are given below:
1. Content
Arithmetic
Fractions : Different forms of the same fraction and reduction to lowest terms. Operations on fractions.
Representation of certain fractions as terminating decimals. Operations on such decimals.
Percent : Concept of percent and its relation to fractions. Applications of percent in monetary transactions,
such as interest (simple and compound), profit and loss, and discount.
Average : Average as representative number of a group of numbers. Computation of average. Quick
computation of the change in average when one number of the group is replaced by another. Average of
combined groups
Negative Numbers : Use of negative numbers in certain physical contexts such as temperature and
scoring. Fundamental operations of negative numbers. Use of negative numbers in algebra.
Exponentiation : Exponentiation as repeated multiplication. Positive integral powers. Multiplication and
division of numbers expressed as powers. Meaning of negative powers and its use in simplification.
Ratio and Proportion : Ratios for comparing two or more magnitudes using a common unit. Multiple
interpretations of comparisons involving ratios. Uses of the idea in such contexts as comparing different
types in a group, different ingredients in a mixture, monetary division, aspect ratio in geometry and so on.
Proportion as change of quantities without changing the ratio. The idea of the constant of proportion.
K-TET 2012
2/15
Syllabus - Category II
Inverse proportion as proportionality with the reciprocal. The equations y = kx and y = k
x . Use of these
ideas in physics, such as in elasticity, levers and gravitation.
Time and Distance : The concept of average speed. Relation between time, distance and average speed.
Finding average speed of trips done in two parts in various cases such as when the distance in both parts
are equal and when the time for both parts are the same.
Algebra
Use of algebra to express unchanging relations between changing physical quantities. Algebraic expressions
as shorthand for arithmetical operations on unspecified numbers. General properties of arithmetic operations,
especially products of sums and differences as algebraic identities. Formulation and solution of a linear
equation in one unknown, arising from certain physical and mathematical contexts.
Geometry
Angles : Angle as measure of slant and as measure of spread. Degree measure of an angle by dividing a
circle into 360 equal sectors. Perpendicularity relation between the four angles made by two intersecting
lines.
Parallel Lines : A pair of parallel lines as lines keeping the same distance throughout and as lines having
the same slant with a third line. Characterization of a pair of parallel lines in terms of various pairs of
angles from the eight angles made by intersection with a third line. Sum of angles of a triangle and
polygons.
Triangles : Area of a triangle in terms of base and height. Drawing triangles according to some specified
measures. Cases where two different triangles are possible and no triangle is possible. The concept of
congruency of triangles, Sufficient conditions for two triangles to be congruent, such as having lengths of
all three sides equal, lengths of two sides and included angle equal, lengths of one side and the two angles
on it equal. Various applications of these ideas such as in proving properties of parallelograms and isosceles
triangles, drawing the perpendicular bisector of a line and bisector of an angle.
Quadrilaterals : Classification of quadrilaterals as rectangle, square, parallelogram, rhombus, and trapezium
and their various characterizations. Drawing these types of quadrilaterals of specified measures. Areas
of various types of quadrilaterals.
Solids : The idea of a rectangular prism. Its volume and surface area.
Statistics
Graphical Representation : Representing numerical data as pictographs, bar graphs, multiple bar graphs,
line graphs and pie charts. Drawing inferences from such graphs.
Tabular Representation : Representing numerical data as a frequency table.
2. Pedagogy
Nature of Mathematics
Abstraction, Understanding children’s thinking and reasoning. Language of Mathematics.
Place of Mathematics in Curriculum
Aims and objectives of learning mathematics in primary classes -Values of mathematics learning.
Correlation with other subjects, Lower primary and Upper primary Mathematics curriculum
Mathematics - Trends and Developments
Historical development of mathematics
History of great mathematicians and their contributions
K-TET 2012
2/16
Syllabus - Category II
Approach to Mathematics Learning
Proper learning experiences keeping in mind the characteristics of children, his natural learning capacity
and the learning process of the child.
Theoretical base of learning mathematics
Learning of Mathematics - Strategies and Methods
learning strategies- Concept attainment, Process oriented approach, Projects, Seminars, Field trip, etc.
Different teaching learning methods –Inductive and deductive method, Analytic and Synthetic method,
Project Method, laboratory method. Planning of a lesson
Learning Materials in Mathematics
Textbook and Handbooks, Information technology, Mathematics club, Mathematics laboratory, Mathematics
fair, Mathematics library. Mathematics collection - collection of mathematical puzzles, riddles, etc.
Mathematics Learning - Evaluation
Concept of continuous and comprehensive evaluation, Evaluation activities, Grading the performance and
recording the results.Diagnosis,Remedial Teaching and Error Analysis.
Total 30 Marks
IV. B SOCIAL SCIENCE 60 Questions
(i) HISTORY (12 Questions)
1. Stone age, beginning of agriculture
2. Civilizations - Egypt, China, Mesopotamia, Harappa
3. Industrial and agrarian revolutions, capitalism
4. Socialism, labour movements and labour struggles
5. Colonialism in India
6. Struggles of peasants, workers, tribals, women, sepoys, poligars, rulers and chieftains
7. Revolt of 1857
8. Social reform movements of India
9. Indian national movement and Gandhian era.
10. Movements for social change, peasant struggles and national movement in modern Kerala
(ii) GEOGRAPHY (12 Questions)
1. Planets and other heavenly bodies
2. Size, shape, interior structure of the earth, seasons, temperature zones
3. Latitude, longitude, longitude and time
4. Map and its types, scale, topographical maps, globe
5. Climate & weather, temperature, pressure, rainfall and winds
6. India - Relief, climate, drainage, vegetation
7. India - Resources, agriculture, industry, transport, population
8. Kerala - Physiography, drainage, agriculture, transport, human life
9. Environmental problems and conservative measures.
K-TET 2012
2/17
Syllabus - Category II
(iii) ECONOMICS (8 Questions)
1. Economic growth, development and human development - concepts and trends
2. Five Year Plans
3. Agriculture, food security and poverty
4. Traditional industries of Kerala
5. Money and banking
6. Demographic trends - India and Kerala
7. Globalisation and India
(iv) POLITICAL SCIENCE (8 Questions)
1. Democracy
2. People and state Government
3. Political parties - Types and functions
4. Election process and the Role of Election Commission
5. Local Self Governments
(v) SOCIAL SCIENCE - PEDAGOGY (20 Questions)
1. Nature, scope, importance and correlation
2. National goals, aims & objectives of instruction
3. Curriculum - trends, principles & orgnaisations
4. Analysis and planning of instruction.
5. Types of learners and requirements for learning
6. Learning resources and co-curricular activities
7. Purpose and modern trends of evaluation
8. Methods, approaches & techniques of instruction
9. Characteristics of modern instructional strategies